{'Coronary Artery Disease AND Image processing': [{'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4123729/', 'p': u'Despite advances in the pharmacologic and interventional treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD), atherosclerosis remains the leading cause of death in Western societies. X-ray coronary angiography has been the modality of choice for diagnosing the presence and extent of CAD. However, this technique is invasive and provides limited information on the composition of atherosclerotic plaque. Coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) have emerged as promising non-invasive techniques for the clinical imaging of CAD. Hereby, CCTA allows for visualization of coronary calcification, lumen narrowing and atherosclerotic plaque composition. In this regard, data from the CONFIRM Registry recently demonstrated that both atherosclerotic plaque burden and lumen narrowing exhibit incremental value for the prediction of future cardiac events. However, due to technical limitations with CCTA, resulting in false positive or negative results in the presence of severe calcification or motion artifacts, this technique cannot entirely replace invasive angiography at the present time. CMR on the other hand, provides accurate assessment of the myocardial function due to its high spatial and temporal resolution and intrinsic blood-to-tissue contrast. Hereby, regional wall motion and perfusion abnormalities, during dobutamine or vasodilator stress, precede the development of ST-segment depression and anginal symptoms enabling the detection of functionally significant CAD. While CT generally offers better spatial resolution, the versatility of CMR can provide information on myocardial function, perfusion, and viability, all without ionizing radiation for the patients. Technical developments with these 2 non-invasive imaging tools and their current implementation in the clinical imaging of CAD will be presented and discussed herein.The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.', 'kwd': u'coronary artery disease, atherosclerotic plaque, coronary computed tomography, cardiac magnetic resonance, risk stratification', 'title': u'Cardiac magnetic resonance and computed tomography angiography for clinical imaging of stable coronary artery disease. Diagnostic classification and risk stratification'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4922813/', 'p': u'After a decade of clinical use of coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) to evaluate the anatomic severity of coronary artery disease, new methods of deriving functional information from CCTA have been developed. These methods utilize the anatomic information provided by CCTA in conjunction with computational fluid dynamics to calculate fractional flow reserve (FFR) values from CCTA image data sets. Computed tomography-derived FFR (CT-FFR) enables the identification of lesion-specific drop noninvasively. A three-dimensional CT-FFR modeling technique, which provides FFR values throughout the coronary tree (HeartFlow FFRCT analysis), has been validated against measured FFR and is now approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for clinical use. This technique requires off-site supercomputer analysis. More recently, a one-dimensional computational analysis technique (Siemens cFFR), which can be performed on on-site workstations, has been developed and is currently under investigation. This article reviews CT-FFR technology and clinical evidence for its use in stable patients with suspected coronary artery disease.Intermediate degrees of stenosis (30%\u201370%) present the greatest challenge in the diagnosis of CAD. Since hemodynamically significant lesions are occasionally observed in intermediate lesions with <70% stenosis,13 the use of invasive FFR is recommended to evaluate the function of intermediate coronary lesions as a class IIa indication.6 However, given the relatively lower prevalence of lesion-specific pressure drop caused by intermediate stenosis compared to that of severe stenosis in the FAME study,13 CT-derived FFR would be of great use for assessing the functional significance of intermediate lesions to avoid unnecessary ICA and help in treatment decision making. Table 2 provides a summary of the studies of FFRCT and cFFR. Similar to the overall diagnostic accuracy of CT-derived FFR, all studies demonstrated high diagnostic performance for intermediate stenosis, with the highest accuracy and specificity for FFRCT.24,31,38,39', 'kwd': u'fractional flow reserve, coronary computed tomographic angiography, FFRCT, cFFR', 'title': u'Noninvasive FFR derived from coronary CT angiography in the management of coronary artery disease: technology and clinical update'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5329750/', 'p': u'Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is established in clinical practice guidelines with a growing evidence base supporting its use to aid the diagnosis and management of patients with suspected or established CAD. CMR is a multi-parametric imaging modality that yields high spatial resolution images that can be acquired in any plane for the assessment of global and regional cardiac function, myocardial perfusion and viability, tissue characterisation and coronary artery anatomy, all within a single study protocol and without exposure to ionising radiation. Advances in technology and acquisition techniques continue to progress the utility of CMR across a wide spectrum of cardiovascular disease, and the publication of large scale clinical trials continues to strengthen the role of CMR in daily cardiology practice. This article aims to review current practice and explore the future directions of multi-parametric CMR imaging in the investigation of stable CAD.Although 1.5T is remains the standard field strength used in clinical CMR, imaging at a higher field strength of 3.0T offers increased signal to noise and contrast to noise ratios thereby giving improved spatial and temporal enhancement[27]. Consequently the diagnostic accuracy of perfusion imaging at 3.0T may be improved, and in a small direct comparison of CMR perfusion at 1.5T, 3.0T (n = 61) showed greater diagnostic accuracy in both single vessel (AUC: 0.89 vs 0.70; P < 0.05) and multi-vessel disease (AUC: 0.95 vs 0.82, P < 0.05)[28]. Furthermore, 3.0T has been compared to 1.5T using FFR as reference standard, corroborating it\u2019s superior diagnostic accuracy[29,30]. The higher 3.0T field strength does however pose challenges with greater field inhomogeneity, susceptibility artefacts and higher local energy deposition. Also, many implants deemed \u201cMR compatible\u201d at 1.5T cannot be scanned at 3.0T[31]. These issues are however being overcome with improved technology and the use of multi-transmit radiofrequency CMR techniques improving field homogeneity[32].', 'kwd': u'Cardiovascular magnetic resonance, Coronary heart disease, Myocardial perfusion, Viability, Prognosis', 'title': u'Assessment of stable coronary artery disease by cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging: Current and emerging techniques'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4788549/', 'p': u'Total atherosclerotic plaque burden assessment by CT angiography (CTA) is a promising tool for diagnosis and prognosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) but its validation is restricted to small clinical studies. We tested the feasibility of semi-automatically derived coronary atheroma burden assessment for identifying patients with hemodynamically significant CAD in a large cohort of patients with heterogenous characteristics.This study focused on the CTA component of the CORE320 study population. A semi-automated contour detection algorithm quantified total coronary atheroma volume defined as the difference between vessel and lumen volume. Percent atheroma volume (PAV = [total atheroma volume/total vessel volume]\xd7100) was the primary metric for assessment (n=374). The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) determined the diagnostic accuracy for identifying patients with hemodynamically significant CAD defined as \u226550% stenosis by quantitative coronary angiography and associated myocardial perfusion abnormality by SPECT.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Total Coronary Atherosclerotic Plaque Burden Assessment by CT Angiography for Detecting Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease Associated with Myocardial Perfusion Abnormalities'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2947500/', 'p': u'Conceived and designed the experiments: WJM JW JMAvE RMB TL. Performed the experiments: SCG. Analyzed the data: SCG MEK AGK SS TL. Contributed reagents/materials/analysis tools: RJvdG. Wrote the paper: SCG MEK AGK SS MK RJvdG WJM JW JMAvE RMB TL. Data interpretation and supervision: MEK JvE TL. Statistical analysis: AK. Assistance with data acquisition in early phase of study: MK. Developed MR method: RB. Handled funding: TL.Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is sensitive to early atherosclerotic changes such as positive remodeling in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). We assessed prevalence, quality, and extent of coronary atherosclerosis in a group of healthy subjects compared to patients with confirmed CAD.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Visualization of Coronary Wall Atherosclerosis in Asymptomatic Subjects and Patients with Coronary Artery Disease Using Magnetic Resonance Imaging'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3479873/', 'p': u"Coronary CT angiography has been increasingly used in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease owing to rapid technological developments, which are reflected in the improved spatial and temporal resolution of the images. High diagnostic accuracy has been achieved with multislice CT scanners (64 slice and higher), and in selected patients coronary CT angiography is regarded as a reliable alternative to invasive coronary angiography. With high-quality coronary CT imaging increasingly being performed, patients can benefit from an imaging modality that provides a rapid and accurate diagnosis while avoiding an invasive procedure. Despite the tremendous contributions of coronary CT angiography to cardiac imaging, study results reported in the literature should be interpreted with caution as there are some limitations existing within the study design or related to patient risk factors. In addition, some attention must be given to the potential health risks associated with the ionising radiation received during cardiac CT examinations. Radiation dose associated with coronary CT angiography has raised serious concerns in the literature, as the risk of developing malignancy is not negligible. Various dose-saving strategies have been implemented, with some of the strategies resulting in significant dose reduction. The aim of this review is to present an overview of the role of coronary CT angiography on cardiac imaging, with focus on coronary artery disease in terms of the diagnostic and prognostic value of coronary CT angiography. Various approaches for dose reduction commonly recommended in the literature are discussed. Limitations of coronary CT angiography are identified. Finally, future directions and challenges with the use of coronary CT angiography are highlighted.There is no doubt that, with increasing technological improvements, coronary CT angiography will continue to play an important role in the detection and diagnosis of CAD. Justification is a shared responsibility between requesting physicians and radiologists. For cardiac imaging exposures, the primary tasks of the medical imaging specialists are to collaborate with referring cardiologists to direct patients to the most appropriate imaging modality for the required diagnostic task and to ensure that all technical aspects of the examination are optimised so that the acquired image quality is diagnostic while keeping the doses as low as possible [97]. This is particularly important for young individuals, especially women, for whom alternative diagnostic modalities that do not involve the use of ionising radiation should be considered, such as stress electrocardiography, echocardiography or MRI. The benefit-to-risk ratio for imaging patients suspected of CAD must be driven by the benefit and appropriateness of the CCTA examination requested by the physicians. The American College of Radiology's appropriateness criteria provide evidence-based guidelines to help physicians in recommending an appropriate imaging test [98]. Similarly, the European Commission's guidelines and UK's Royal College of Radiologists' referral guidelines for imaging also provide a detailed overview of clinical indications for imaging examinations including CT [99]. Physicians need to follow guidelines like national diagnostic reference levels for reducing radiation dosages.", 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Coronary CT angiography: current status and continuing challenges'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4613789/', 'p': u'Diagnosis and management of coronary artery disease represent a major challenge to our health care systems affecting millions of patients each year. Until recently, the diagnosis of coronary artery disease could be conclusively determined only by invasive coronary angiography. To avoid risks from cardiac catheterization, many healthcare systems relied on stress testing as gatekeeper for coronary angiography. Advancements in cardiac computed tomography angiography technology now allows to noninvasively visualize coronary artery disease, challenging the role of stress testing as the default noninvasive imaging tool for evaluating patients with chest pain. In this review, we summarize current data on the clinical utility of cardiac computed tomography and stress testing in stable patients with suspected coronary artery disease.Cardiovascular diseases, and particular, coronary artery disease (CAD), remain the leading cause of death worldwide with an enormous burden on health care systems [1]. Annually, more than 10 million stress tests and approximately one million diagnostic cardiac catheterizations are being performed in the U.S. alone [1]. Total costs of cardiovascular disease and stroke in the U.S. for 2015 are estimated to exceed 320 billion dollars [1]. Management of CAD requires an accurate diagnosis. For many decades, invasive coronary angiography (ICA) has served as the gold standard for the diagnosis of CAD despite many well recognized limitations of this seasoned technology [2;3]. To avoid risks from cardiac catheterization in low-intermediate risk patients, we have been using myocardial stress testing as gatekeeper for invasive angiography. The emergence of multi-detector computed tomography technology has allowed to noninvasively assess the presence, location, severity, and characteristics of coronary atherosclerotic disease in patients. In recent years, an abundance of clinical studies revealed data on the diagnostic and prognostic performance of cardiac computed tomography angiography (CCTA), challenging the role of stress testing as the default noninvasive test for patients presenting with non-acute chest pain. In this paper, we review current data on the clinical utility of CCTA vs. stress testing in stable patients with suspected CAD.', 'kwd': u'Coronary heart disease, cardiac computed tomography angiography, stress imaging, myocardial perfusion imaging, single-photon-emission tomography', 'title': u'Cardiac CT vs. Stress Testing in Patients with Suspected\nCoronary Artery Disease: Review and Expert Recommendations'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3665274/', 'p': u'Coronary endothelial function (endoFx) is abnormal in patients with established coronary artery disease (CAD) and was recently shown by MRI to relate to the severity of luminal stenosis. Recent advances in MRI now allow the non-invasive assessment of both anatomic and functional (endoFx) changes that previously required invasive studies. We tested the hypothesis that abnormal coronary endoFx is related to measures of early atherosclerosis such as increased coronary wall thickness (CWT).Seventeen arteries in fourteen healthy adults and seventeen arteries in fourteen patients with non-obstructive CAD were studied. To measure endoFx, coronary MRI was performed before and during isometric handgrip exercise, an endothelial-dependent stressor and changes in coronary cross-sectional area (CSA) and flow were measured. Black blood imaging was performed to quantify CWT and other indices of arterial remodeling. The mean stress-induced change in CSA was significantly higher in healthy adults (13.5%\xb112.8%, mean\xb1SD, n=17) than in those with mildly diseased arteries (-2.2\xb16.8%, p<0.0001, n=17). Mean CWT was lower in healthy subjects (0.9\xb10.2mm) than in CAD patients (1.4\xb10.3mm, p<0.0001). In contrast to healthy subjects, stress-induced changes in CSA, a measure of coronary endoFx, correlated inversely with CWT in CAD patients (r= -0.73, p=0.0008).', 'kwd': u'coronary disease, endothelium, magnetic resonance imaging', 'title': u'Regional Coronary Endothelial Function is Closely Related to Local Early Coronary Atherosclerosis in Patients with Mild Coronary Artery Disease: A Pilot Study'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4430913/', 'p': u'Computerized tomographic angiography (3D data representing the coronary arteries) and X-ray angiography (2D X-ray image sequences providing information about coronary arteries and their stenosis) are standard and popular assessment tools utilized for medical diagnosis of coronary artery diseases. At present, the results of both modalities are individually analyzed by specialists and it is difficult for them to mentally connect the details of these two techniques. The aim of this work is to assist medical diagnosis by providing specialists with the relationship between computerized tomographic angiography and X-ray angiography.In this study, coronary arteries from two modalities are registered in order to create a 3D reconstruction of the stenosis position. The proposed method starts with coronary artery segmentation and labeling for both modalities. Then, stenosis and relevant labeled artery in X-ray angiography image are marked by a specialist. Proper control points for the marked artery in both modalities are automatically detected and normalized. Then, a geometrical transformation function is computed using these control points. Finally, this function is utilized to register the marked artery from the X-ray angiography image on the computerized tomographic angiography and get the 3D position of the stenosis lesion.', 'kwd': u'Angiography, Computerized tomography angiography, Segmentation, Labeling, Multimodal registration, 3D reconstruction', 'title': u'3D multimodal cardiac data reconstruction using angiography and computerized tomographic angiography registration'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3729736/', 'p': u'The purpose of this study is to (1) investigate the image quality of phase-sensitive dual inversion recovery (PS-DIR) coronary wall imaging in healthy subjects and in subjects with known coronary artery disease (CAD) and to (2) investigate the utilization of PS-DIR at 3T in the assessment of coronary artery thickening in subjects with asymptomatic but variable degrees of CAD.A total of 37 subjects participated in this Institutional Review Board approved and HIPAA-compliant study. These included 21 subjects with known CAD as identified on Multi-Detector CT angiography (MDCT). Sixteen healthy subjects without known history of CAD were included. All subjects were scanned using free-breathing PS-DIR MRI for the assessment of coronary wall thickness at 3T. Lumen-tissue contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), signal-to-noise (SNR), and quantitative vessel parameters including lumen area and wall thickness were measured. Statistical analyses were performed.', 'kwd': u'Atherosclerosis, coronary artery imaging, vessel wall, black blood MRI, Phase sensitive, dual inversion recovery, 3T', 'title': u'Feasibility of Coronary Artery Wall Thickening Assessment in Asymptomatic Coronary Artery Disease using Phase-Sensitive Dual Inversion Recovery MRI at 3T'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3598430/', 'p': u'To date, the therapeutic benefit of revascularization vs. medical therapy for stable individuals undergoing invasive coronary angiography (ICA) based upon coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) findings has not been examined.We examined 15 223 patients without known coronary artery disease (CAD) undergoing CCTA from eight sites and six countries who were followed for median 2.1 years (interquartile range 1.4\u20133.3 years) for an endpoint of all-cause mortality. Obstructive CAD by CCTA was defined as a \u226550% luminal diameter stenosis in a major coronary artery. Patients were categorized as having high-risk CAD vs. non-high-risk CAD, with the former including patients with at least obstructive two-vessel CAD with proximal left anterior descending artery involvement, three-vessel CAD, and left main CAD. Death occurred in 185 (1.2%) patients. Patients were categorized into two treatment groups: revascularization (n = 1103; 2.2% mortality) and medical therapy (n = 14 120, 1.1% mortality). To account for non-randomized referral to revascularization, we created a propensity score developed by logistic regression to identify variables that influenced the decision to refer to revascularization. Within this model (C index 0.92, \u03c72 = 1248, P < 0.0001), obstructive CAD was the most influential factor for referral, followed by an interaction of obstructive CAD with pre-test likelihood of CAD (P = 0.0344). Within CCTA CAD groups, rates of revascularization increased from 3.8% for non-high-risk CAD to 51.2% high-risk CAD. In multivariable models, when compared with medical therapy, revascularization was associated with a survival advantage for patients with high-risk CAD [hazards ratio (HR) 0.38, 95% confidence interval 0.18\u20130.83], with no difference in survival for patients with non-high-risk CAD (HR 3.24, 95% CI 0.76\u201313.89) (P-value for interaction = 0.03).', 'kwd': u'Computed tomography, Coronary revascularization, Medical therapy, Coronary artery disease', 'title': u'All-cause mortality benefit of coronary revascularization vs. medical therapy in patients without known coronary artery disease undergoing coronary computed tomographic angiography: results from CONFIRM (COronary CT Angiography EvaluatioN For Clinical Outcomes: An InteRnational Multicenter Registry)'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5594598/', 'p': u'The use of coronary MR angiography (CMRA) in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) remains limited due to the long scan times, unpredictable and often non-diagnostic image quality secondary to respiratory motion artifacts. The purpose of this study was to evaluate CMRA with image-based respiratory navigation (iNAV CMRA) and compare it to gold standard invasive x-ray coronary angiography in patients with CAD.Consecutive patients referred for CMR assessment were included to undergo iNAV CMRA on a 1.5\xa0T scanner. Coronary vessel sharpness and a visual score were assigned to the coronary arteries. A diagnostic reading was performed on the iNAV CMRA data, where a lumen narrowing >50% was considered diseased. This was compared to invasive x-ray findings.', 'kwd': u'Coronary MR angiography, Image navigators, Respiratory motion correction, Coronary artery disease', 'title': u'Diagnostic performance of image navigated coronary CMR angiography in patients with coronary artery disease'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5102483/', 'p': '-', 'kwd': u'Coronary Artery Disease / diagnoses, Scintigraphy, Calcium Signaling, Tomography, Emission Computed', 'title': u'Relationship between Calcium Score and Myocardial Scintigraphy in the\nDiagnosis of Coronary Disease'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3377563/', 'p': u'The objective of the analysis is to determine the diagnostic accuracy of stress echocardiography (ECHO) in the diagnosis of patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) compared to coronary angiography (CA).The objective of the analysis is to determine the diagnostic accuracy of stress echocardiography (stress ECHO) in the diagnosis of patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD).', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Stress Echocardiography for the Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Disease'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5422837/', 'p': u'During the last decade coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) has become the preeminent non-invasive imaging modality to detect coronary artery disease (CAD) with high accuracy. However, CTA has a limited value in assessing the hemodynamic significance of a given stenosis due to a modest specificity and positive predictive value. In recent years, different CT techniques for detecting myocardial ischemia have emerged, such as CT-derived fractional flow reserve (FFR-CT), transluminal attenuation gradient (TAG), and myocardial CT perfusion (CTP) imaging. Myocardial CTP imaging can be performed with a single static scan during first pass of the contrast agent, with monoenergetic or dual-energy acquisition, or as a dynamic, time-resolved scan during stress by using coronary vasodilator agents (adenosine, dipyridamole, or regadenoson). A number of CTP techniques are available, which can assess myocardial perfusion in both a qualitative, semi-quantitative or quantitative manner. Once used primarily as research tools, these modalities are increasingly being used in routine clinical practice. All these techniques offer the substantial advantage of combining anatomical and functional evaluation of flow-limiting coronary stenosis in the same examination that would be beneficial for clinical decision-making. This review focuses on the state-of the-art and future trends of these evolving imaging modalities in the field of cardiology for the physiologic assessments of CAD.The FFR-CT method allows the extraction of \u2018stress induced\u2019 quantitative functional information from an anatomic CTA of at least moderate quality acquired at rest without adenosine infusion. The method uses computational fluid dynamics with simulated hyperemia to calculate the FFR measurement at any point in the vascular tree (39). The concept of coronary FFR, defined as the ratio of the mean coronary pressure distal to a coronary stenosis to the mean aortic pressure during maximal coronary blood flow, has evolved into an accepted functional measure of stenosis severity since first proposed 15 years ago (22). FFR has now become the invasive gold standard for assessing lesion-specific ischemia. A FFR value less than 0.80 or less than 0.75 identifies hemodynamic significance of coronary stenosis (7,8). FFR-CT correlates well with invasive-derived FFR measurements in patients with suspected or known CAD (17,39,40). One of the temporary drawbacks is that FFR-CT needs extreme computational ability and analysis time, which hampers widespread dissemination.', 'kwd': u'Cardiac computed tomography, coronary artery disease (CAD), stress imaging, myocardial perfusion imaging, myocardial blood flow quantification', 'title': u'Myocardial blood flow quantification for evaluation of coronary artery disease by computed tomography'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4499869/', 'p': u'The initial course of atherosclerotic disease is thought to begin in early adulthood. In young adults lesions in the arterial vessel wall have been observed surprisingly frequently13 but the prognostic relevance of early, adaptive or reversible changes like \u201cfatty streak\u201d or intimal thickening remains a matter of debate. Pathology studies seek to integrate autopsy findings from various stages of atherosclerosis to provide a putative sequence of events4. In brief, intimal thickening is observed early in the disease process. The early atherosclerotic lesion is composed of smooth muscle cells and is affected by increased macrophage and lipid influx. If this process continues, a necrotic core is formed and the lesion progresses to a fibrous cap atheroma. The necrotic core contains lipids and apoptotic macrophages. A stable fibrous cap may prevent rupture of the lesion. If the fibrous cap loses matrix proteins and smooth muscle cells, a thin cap atheroma can result. Intraplaque hemorrhage is also seen frequently in this entity, leading to further enlargement of the lipid core. The risk of plaque rupture is increased as the fibrous cap thins and the lipid core enlarges14. The \u201cfibrocalcific plaque\u201d is considered to be a feature of more stable plaque, although the processes involved in calcification are not fully understood.It is generally conceived that therapeutic intervention for atherosclerosisis most effective when started at an early stage of the progressive disease process 15. Imaging tools have provided a substantial database of knowledge regarding disease burden. Imaging of the larger surface vessels (carotid or femoral arteries) has been extensively used to detect early systemic vascular pathology 16. Calcium detection using non-contrast CT provides a direct approach to assessing coronary atherosclerosis burden. The coronary artery calcium score has strong predictive power for cardiovascular events in asymptomatic subjects17. However, calcium deposition is felt to be a late event in the formation of atherosclerotic plaque. The relevance of non-calcified plaque is emphasized by prospective IVUS studies that show coronary fibroatheroma without significant calcification confers an elevated risk for myocardial infarction 18. Non-calcified plaque is more common than calcified plaque in asymptomatic individuals younger than 45 years. The ability to noninvasively image non-calcified plaque or wall thickening of the coronary arteries using MRI or CT enables the detection of earlier stages of atherosclerotic disease 19, 20.', 'kwd': u'imaging, coronary disease, plaque, atherosclerosis', 'title': u'Noninvasive Imaging of Atherosclerotic Plaque Progression: Status of Coronary CT Angiography'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3314981/', 'p': u'A sexual dimorphism exists in the incidence and prevalence of coronary artery disease\u2014men are more commonly affected than are age-matched women. We explored the role of the Y chromosome in coronary artery disease in the context of this sexual inequity.We genotyped 11 markers of the male-specific region of the Y chromosome in 3233 biologically unrelated British men from three cohorts: the British Heart Foundation Family Heart Study (BHF-FHS), West of Scotland Coronary Prevention Study (WOSCOPS), and Cardiogenics Study. On the basis of this information, each Y chromosome was tracked back into one of 13 ancient lineages defined as haplogroups. We then examined associations between common Y chromosome haplogroups and the risk of coronary artery disease in cross-sectional BHF-FHS and prospective WOSCOPS. Finally, we undertook functional analysis of Y chromosome effects on monocyte and macrophage transcriptome in British men from the Cardiogenics Study.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Inheritance of coronary artery disease in men: an analysis of the role of the Y chromosome'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3566965/', 'p': u'More than a million diagnostic cardiac catheterizations are performed annually in the US for evaluation of coronary artery anatomy and the presence of atherosclerosis. Nearly half of these patients have no significant coronary lesions or do not require mechanical or surgical revascularization. Consequently, the ability to rule out clinically significant coronary artery disease (CAD) using low cost, low risk tests of serum biomarkers in even a small percentage of patients with normal coronary arteries could be highly beneficial.Serum from 359 symptomatic subjects referred for catheterization was interrogated for proteins involved in atherogenesis, atherosclerosis, and plaque vulnerability. Coronary angiography classified 150 patients without flow-limiting CAD who did not require percutaneous intervention (PCI) while 209 required coronary revascularization (stents, angioplasty, or coronary artery bypass graft surgery). Continuous variables were compared across the two patient groups for each analyte including calculation of false discovery rate (FDR \u2264 1%) and Q value (P value for statistical significance adjusted to \u2264 0.01).', 'kwd': u'atherosclerosis, biomarkers, cardiac catheterization, coronary angiography, coronary stenosis, multiplex proteomics', 'title': u'Serum protein profiles predict coronary artery disease in symptomatic patients referred for coronary angiography'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4395291/', 'p': u'Conceived and designed the experiments: JHZ HLK KNJ. Performed the experiments: JBS YHC WYC SHK MAK. Analyzed the data: HLK KNJ. Contributed reagents/materials/analysis tools: JBS YHC WYC SHK MAK. Wrote the paper: HLK KNJ JHZ.The aim of this study was to investigate whether brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) is associated with the severity of coronary artery disease (CAD) assessed by coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA), and to evaluate baPWV as a predictor of obstructive CAD on CCTA. A total of 470 patients who underwent both baPWV and CCTA were included. We evaluated stenosis degree and plaque characteristics on CCTA. To estimate the severity of CAD, we calculated the number of segment with plaque (segment involvement score; SIS), stenosis degree-weighted plaque score (segment stenosis score; SSS), and coronary artery calcium score (CACS). The mean baPWV was 1,485 \xb1 315 cm/s (range, 935-3,175 cm/s). Non-obstructive (stenosis < 50%) and obstructive (stenosis \u2265 50%) CAD was found in 129 patients (27.4%) and 144 (30.6%), respectively. baPWV in patients with obstructive CAD was higher than that of patients with non-obstructive (1,680 \xb1 396 cm/s versus 1,477 \xb1 244 cm/s, P < 0.001) or no CAD (1,680 \xb1 396 cm/s versus \xb1 196 1,389 cm/s, P < 0.001). baPWV showed significant correlation with SSS (r = 0.429, P < 0.001), SIS (r = 0.395, P < 0.001), CACS (r 0.346, P < 0.001), and the number of segment with non-calcified plaque (r 0.092, P = 0.047), mixed plaque (r = 0.267, P < 0.001), and calcified plaque (r = 0.348, P < 0.001), respectively. The optimal baPWV cut-off value for the detection of obstructive CAD was 1,547 cm/s. baPWV \u2265 1,547 cm/s was independent predictor for the obstructive CAD. In conclusion, baPWV is well correlated with the severity of CAD evaluated by CCTA. baPWV has the potential to predict severity of coronary artery atherosclerosis.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'The Association of Brachial-Ankle Pulse Wave Velocity with Coronary Artery Disease Evaluated by Coronary Computed Tomography Angiography'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5553869/', 'p': u'The major issue in coronary heart disease (CHD) diagnosis and management is that symptoms onset in an advanced state of disease. Despite the availability of several clinical risk scores, the prediction of cardiovascular events is lacking, and many patients at risk are not well stratified according to the canonical risk factors alone. Therefore, adequate risk assessment remains the most challenging issue. Recently, the integration of imaging data with biochemical markers in a radiogenomic framework has been proposed in many fields of medicine as well as in cardiology. Multimodal imaging and advanced processing techniques can provide both direct (e.g., remodeling index, calcium score, total plaque volume, plaque burden) and indirect (e.g., myocardial perfusion index, coronary flow reserve) imaging features of CHD. Furthermore, the identification of novel non-invasive biochemical markers, mainly focused on plasma and/or serum samples, has increased the specificity of findings, reflecting several pathophysiological pathways of atherosclerosis, the principal actor in CHD. In this context, a multifaced approach, derived from the strengths of all these modalities, appears promising for finer risk stratification and treatment strategies, facilitating the decision-making and clinical management of patients. This review underlines the role of different imaging modalities in the quantification of coronary atherosclerosis and describes novel blood-based markers that could improve diagnosis and have a better predictive value in CHD.The need to improve diagnosis and risk prediction has prompted the search for novel markers in cardiovascular medicine. Literature data suggest that CTCA could substantially reduce the number of invasive procedures, increasing the safety of patients, and allows a more precise planning of potential treatment options. Furthermore, strong evidence has also emerged on the usefulness of coronary calcium score assessed by CTCA. In association with imaging improvements, novel high-throughput platforms investigating proteomic, metabolomic, epigenomic, and transcriptomics profiles together with genome-wide association studies may generate \u201cmultimarker CHD scores\u201d with a higher predictive power than the use of a single biomarker. Surrogate biomarkers of coronary atherosclerosis and advanced imaging techniques could represent important cornerstones to characterize sub-clinical and clinical atherosclerosis with a consequent facilitation in the decision-making and clinical management of patients.', 'kwd': u'Atherosclerosis, coronary heart disease, imaging, biomarkers', 'title': u'An integrated approach to coronary heart disease diagnosis and clinical management'}], 'Coronary Artery Disease AND Deep Learning': [{'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4405523/', 'p': '-', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Abstracts from the 38th Annual Meeting of the Society of General Internal Medicine'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4429500/', 'p': '-', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Abstracts from the 37th Annual Meeting of the Society of General Internal Medicine'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4970347/', 'p': u'The Human Genome Project (HGP) has identified millions of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and their association with several diseases, apart from successfully characterizing the Mendelian/monogenic diseases. However, the dissection of precise etiology of complex genetic disorders still poses a challenge for human geneticists. This review outlines the landmark results of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) with respect to major complex diseases \u2014 Coronary artery disease (CAD), type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and predominant cancers. A brief account on the current Indian scenario is also given. All the relevant publications till mid-2015 were accessed through web databases such as PubMed and Google. Several databases providing genetic information related to these diseases were tabulated and in particular, the list of the most significant SNPs identified through GWAS was made, which may be useful for designing studies in functional validation. Post-GWAS implications and emerging concepts such as epigenomics and pharmacogenomics were also discussed.With advancing scientific technologies and methods, novel approaches have been employed in understanding the genetic etiology of human diseases. The rapid emergence of genomics and epigenomics from genetics has a huge contribution in revealing the etiology of complex diseases. A large number of novel genetic variants have been identified, apart from those identified by the candidate gene approach and family-based linkage studies. Genomic technologies are widely used in developing personalized medicine and novel drug delivery systems. This review outlines the landmark results of genome-wide association study (GWAS) approach with respect to major complex diseases, particularly coronary artery disease (CAD), type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and predominant cancers.', 'kwd': u'Candidate gene approach, epigenetics, monogenic disease, pharmacogenomics, pleiotropism', 'title': u'Genomics era and complex disorders: Implications of GWAS with special reference to coronary artery disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and cancers'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3654146/', 'p': '-', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Abstracts from the 36th Annual Meeting of the Society of General Internal Medicine'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4561793/', 'p': u'The advent of percutaneous intervention has made surgical treatment of coronary artery disease less favored by patients though the evidence that supports CABG in certain patient subsets is strong.Literature review was done using Pubmed, Scopus, Google and Google Scholar with MeSH terms-coronary artery bypass grafting, internal mammary artery, drug eluting stent, stroke, myocardial revascularization.', 'kwd': u'Coronary artery bypass grafting, Internal mammary artery, Drug eluting stent, Stroke, Myocardial revascularization', 'title': u'Strategies for the coronary surgeon to remain \u201ccompetitive and co-operative\u201d in the PCI era'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5450918/', 'p': u'Non-invasive imaging plays a critical role in managing patients with cardiovascular disease. Although subjective visual interpretation remains the clinical mainstay, quantitative analysis facilitates objective, evidence-based management, and advances in clinical research. This has driven developments in computing and software tools aimed at achieving fully automated image processing and quantitative analysis. In parallel, machine learning techniques have been used to rapidly integrate large amounts of clinical and quantitative imaging data to provide highly personalized individual patient-based conclusions.This review summarizes recent advances in automated quantitative imaging in cardiology and describes the latest techniques which incorporate machine learning principles. The review focuses on the cardiac imaging techniques which are in wide clinical use. It also discusses key issues and obstacles for these tools to become utilized in mainstream clinical practice.', 'kwd': u'Artificial intelligence, machine learning, cardiac imaging, deep learning, image segmentation', 'title': u'Cardiac imaging: working towards fully-automated machine analysis & interpretation'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4478984/', 'p': u'Visual identification of coronary arterial lesion from three-dimensional coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) remains challenging. We aimed to develop a robust automated algorithm for computer detection of coronary artery lesions by machine learning techniques. A structured learning technique is proposed to detect all coronary arterial lesions with stenosis \xa0\u2265\xa025%. Our algorithm consists of two stages: (1)\xa0two independent base decisions indicating the existence of lesions in each arterial segment and (b) the final decision made by combining the base decisions. One of the base decisions is the support vector machine (SVM) based learning algorithm, which divides each artery into small volume patches and integrates several quantitative geometric and shape features for arterial lesions in each small volume patch by SVM algorithm. The other base decision is the formula-based analytic method. The final decision in the first stage applies SVM-based decision fusion to combine the two base decisions in the second stage. The proposed algorithm was applied to 42 CTA patient datasets, acquired with dual-source CT, where 21 datasets had 45 lesions with stenosis \xa0\u2265\xa025%. Visual identification of lesions with stenosis \xa0\u2265\xa025% by three expert readers, using consensus reading, was considered as a reference standard. Our method performed with high sensitivity (93%), specificity (95%), and accuracy (94%), with receiver operator characteristic area under the curve of 0.94. The proposed algorithm shows promising results in the automated detection of obstructive and nonobstructive lesions from CTA.Our study selected 42 consecutive patients, who underwent CTA for clinical reasons at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center between 2007 and 2009. All patients were imaged using a dual-source 64-slice CT scanner (SOMATOM Definition Siemens Medical Solution, Forchheim, Germany). Twenty-one patients had coronary lesions with stenosis \xa0\u2265\xa025%. In these patients, 45 segments including lesions with stenosis \xa0\u2265\xa025% were identified. Eight out of the remaining 21 patients had lesions with stenosis \xa0<\xa025% and 13 patients did not have any lesions (no luminal stenosis or plaque).36', 'kwd': u'structured learning, learning-based detection, machine learning, image feature extraction, support vector machines, support vector regression, coronary computed tomography angiography, coronary arterial disease, coronary arterial lesion detection from coronary computed tomography angiography', 'title': u'Structured learning algorithm for detection of nonobstructive and obstructive coronary plaque lesions from computed tomography angiography'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3842035/', 'p': u'The primary anatomical abnormality is anterior and leftward deviation of the infundibular or outlet septum, resulting in: 1) narrowing of the pulmonary outflow between the infundibular septum and the anterior wall, 2) a ventricular septal defect (VSD) because the infundibular septum fails to insert into the \u2018Y\u2019 of septal band, and 3) overriding of the aorta due to abnormal rotation of the outflow. RV hypertrophy is secondary to RV hypertension.In the vast majority of patients with TGA the atria and ventricles are normally positioned and the abnormality is confined to the outflow. Most often the aorta is anterior and rightward of the PA. In 2/3 of cases the ventricular septum is intact. In the remainder a VSD, LV outflow obstruction, RV outflow obstruction, or coarctation might be present. Most frequently, the aorta connects to the RV via infundibular or conal muscle while the PA connects to the LV by direct mitral-pulmonary fibrous continuity. The proximal great arteries are parallel instead of crossing as in the normal heart.', 'kwd': u'Congenital heart disease, Adults, Coronary anatomy, Coronary pattern, Kawasaki disease, Sudden death', 'title': u'Coronary Arteries in Childhood Heart Disease: Implications for Management of Young Adults'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4761002/', 'p': '-', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'7th Indonesian Society of Interventional Cardiology Annual Meeting, November 27 \u2013 29, 2015'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5124586/', 'p': u'Off-pump coronary artery bypass graft (OPCAB) is currently performed routinely in a minority of specialized centers and in many more centers, utilized only when a porcelain aorta mandates a no-touch aortic technique. The OPCAB literature can be summarized as follows: (I) large-scale randomized trials in relatively low risk patients that include surgeons with a range of experience demonstrating no consistent beneficial differences in major cardiovascular and cerebrovascular outcomes but lower transfusion rates and shorter length of stay, tempered by some reports of higher rates of incomplete revascularization and lower rates of long term graft patency; (II) smaller randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from highly specialized programs demonstrating equivalent or superior outcomes with OPCAB and similar completeness of revascularization and graft patency; and (III) observational data from large databases demonstrating a consistent benefit of OPCAB, especially in higher-risk patient subsets. Our rationale for OPCAB remains that if complete and precise revascularization can be safely and routinely accomplished, then the patient should benefit by avoiding the morbidities that can be attributed to aortic cannulation/clamping, cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), hemodilution, hypothermia and global myocardial ischemia/cardioplegia. We further believe that OPCAB procedures should emphasize the use of arterial grafts to optimize long term patency and minimize aortic manipulation to limit the risk of stroke. Moving forward, the off-pump surgical community and specialty societies must address the challenge of training surgeons and their teams to master this technically demanding procedure. Furthermore, OPCAB opens the door to minimally-invasive surgical revascularization via hybrid coronary revascularization (HCR). A large NIH-funded RCT is currently underway to determine whether hybrid revascularization can offer a superior alternative to multi-vessel percutaneous coronary intervention for patients with low SYNTAX score and proximal LAD disease.Retrospective data from specific high-risk subpopulations suggest significant benefit from an OPCAB approach (9-12). These subpopulations may include females (10) and patients in the highest two predicted risk quartiles (3,9). In such patients, improved end-organ perfusion, myocardial protection, limited aortic manipulation and avoidance of systemic inflammation may explain the observed difference in major morbidity and mortality.', 'kwd': u'Off-pump coronary artery bypass graft (OPCAB), off-pump CABG, optimal surgical coronary revascularization', 'title': u'The future of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting: a North American perspective'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4761444/', 'p': u'Despite increasing competition from percutaneous interventions and other novel methods of non-surgical coronary revascularization, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) remains one of the most definitive and durable treatments for coronary artery disease, especially for those patients with extensive and diffuse disease. In recent years the CABG procedure itself has undergone innovation and evolution. This review article provides a brief historical perspective on the procedure, and examines the current state of modern variations including off-pump, limited-access, and robotic-assisted CABG.Efforts to minimize the invasiveness of CABG have focused on decreasing the trauma associated with surgical access. Although median sternotomy is generally well tolerated, patients must refrain from heavy lifting for approximately 2 months after surgery to allow the sternum to heal. Although the incidence of wound complications is generally low, sternal wound infections can be serious and life-threatening. Moreover, the musculoskeletal trauma associated with spreading the halves of the sternum is associated with a systemic inflammatory response that is synergistic with CPB in causing morbidity.48', 'kwd': u'Coronary artery bypass grafting, Coronary artery disease, Surgery', 'title': u'Current State of Surgical Myocardial Revascularization'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3603785/', 'p': u'We report a case of successful percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for reversible ischaemia owing to an anomalous right coronary artery arising from the left coronary sinus with malignant interarterial course and not associated with obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD). PCI for treatment of functional compression of the ostioproximal intramural segment of the anomalous vessel, though described in the literature, is technically challenging, requiring appropriate hardware selection; the peculiar anatomical milieu, in the absence of atherosclerotic CAD, lends itself to an uncertain long-term outcome following endovascular therapy with stenting.A 50-year-old man, hypertensive with no other cardiac risk factors, and a known case of bronchial asthma, was referred for cardiac evaluation for his chest pain on exertion and persisting symptom of dyspnoea on exertion New York Heart Association class II despite adequate therapy for asthma.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Case Report: Is endovascular therapy the right choice for treatment of functional compression of anomalous right coronary artery arising from left coronary sinus with interarterial course?'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5682365/', 'p': u'Cardiovascular diseases are one of the top causes of deaths worldwide. In developing nations and rural areas, difficulties with diagnosis and treatment are made worse due to the deficiency of healthcare facilities. A viable solution to this issue is telemedicine, which involves delivering health care and sharing medical knowledge at a distance. Additionally, mHealth, the utilization of mobile devices for medical care, has also proven to be a feasible choice. The integration of telemedicine, mHealth and computer-aided diagnosis systems with the fields of machine and deep learning has enabled the creation of effective services that are adaptable to a multitude of scenarios. The objective of this review is to provide an overview of heart disease diagnosis and management, especially within the context of rural healthcare, as well as discuss the benefits, issues and solutions of implementing deep learning algorithms to improve the efficacy of relevant medical applications.According to the World Health Organization (WHO), in 2015, cardiovascular diseases represented 31% of all global deaths (1), with ischemic heart disease often cited as the leading cause of death worldwide. Furthermore, public health statistics have shown an increase of patients with some form of cardiovascular disease in countries with low or middle gross national income (2). Although serious and often life threatening, cardiovascular disease in individuals can be managed clinically as a chronic condition, and treated with medications, diet, and regular monitoring of specific health indicators. Risk factors are fairly well defined and lifestyle changes can mitigate some risks. The motivation to prevent and manage heart disease has spurred development of numerous mHealth applications for consumer use, some of which have been scientifically assessed for efficacy (3). In this paper, we provide an overview of telemedicine and mHealth technologies applied in rural healthcare settings, using one form of cardiovascular disease for context. Additionally, we discuss the need for computer-aided diagnosis (CADx) as well as the implementation of machine and deep learning techniques in these systems. Finally, we explore the issues and solutions associated with using deep learning algorithms for medical applications.', 'kwd': u'Heart disease, rural healthcare, telemedicine, mHealth, computer-aided diagnosis, machine learning, deep learning', 'title': u'Deep learning for cardiac computer-aided diagnosis: benefits, issues & solutions'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2794653/', 'p': u'The purpose of this review is to outline the most common objections about robotic coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), often expressed by cardiac surgeons, cardiologists, and administrators who have little direct knowledge of the procedure. The summarized objections include the high intraoperative costs of robotic versus traditional CABG, a prolonged and difficult learning curve for members of the surgical team, and concerns about compromising graft patency with this technique. Arguments for continued procedure development in robotically assisted CABG are provided.There is a growing mandate to organize cardiovascular care around the needs of patients, and to give patients choices about their own health care [STS 2009]. Robotic-assisted CABG, ultimately progressing toward a totally endoscopic procedure, is an innovative example of patient-centered care that helps to address patient concerns about early postoperative quality of life and length of recovery time following traditional CABG. Unlike percutaneous coronary intervention, a surgical intervention is still required. However, the additional up-front risks and morbidity of surgery versus percutaneous coronary intervention are balanced against the long-term benefits of single or dual IMA grafting over multiple coronary stents. A focus on less invasive revascularization makes robotic CABG complementary to percutaneous coronary intervention as a means of addressing a broader population of patients with complex multivessel disease. Our own preliminary experience has demonstrated that a combined \u201chybrid\u201d approach yields excellent perioperative outcomes, with patency of target vessels at 1 year follow-up that compares favorably with patients undergoing traditional CABG via a sternotomy [Kon 2008]. The hybrid procedure also illustrates the type of collaboration that patients, their providers, and payers have been searching for from the US healthcare system.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Establishing the Case for Minimally Invasive, Robotic-Assisted CABG in the Treatment of Multivessel Coronary Artery Disease'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5242057/', 'p': u'Stress echocardiography (SE) has an established role in evidence-based guidelines, but recently its breadth and variety of applications have extended well beyond coronary artery disease (CAD). We lack a prospective research study of SE applications, in and beyond CAD, also considering a variety of signs in addition to regional wall motion abnormalities.In a prospective, multicenter, international, observational study design, > 100 certified high-volume SE labs (initially from Italy, Brazil, Hungary, and Serbia) will be networked with an organized system of clinical, laboratory and imaging data collection at the time of physical or pharmacological SE, with structured follow-up information. The study is endorsed by the Italian Society of Cardiovascular Echography and organized in 10 subprojects focusing on: contractile reserve for prediction of cardiac resynchronization or medical therapy response; stress B-lines in heart failure; hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; heart failure with preserved ejection fraction; mitral regurgitation after either transcatheter or surgical aortic valve replacement; outdoor SE in extreme physiology; right ventricular contractile reserve in repaired Tetralogy of Fallot; suspected or initial pulmonary arterial hypertension; coronary flow velocity, left ventricular elastance reserve and B-lines in known or suspected CAD; identification of subclinical familial disease in genotype-positive, phenotype- negative healthy relatives of inherited disease (such as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy).', 'kwd': u'Effectiveness, Imaging, Prognosis, Stress echocardiography', 'title': u'Stress echo 2020: the international stress echo study in ischemic and non-ischemic heart disease'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3604536/', 'p': u'Coronary angiography remains as the gold standard for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. Serious complication due to coronary angiography is very rare and generally it is considered safe in experienced hands. Here, we would like to present two cases without severe stenosis in the coronary arteries suffering from cardiac arrest soon after the procedures, and draw attention to this lethal complication and review the possible causes of sudden death occurring after coronary angiography.Coronary artery disease remains as the foremost cause of death in the world. Coronary angiography is regarded as the gold standard for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease. Serious complication due to coronary angiography is very rare and generally it is considered safe in experienced hands. Here, we would like to present two cases without severe stenosis in the coronary arteries suffering from cardiac arrest soon after the procedures. We want to draw attention to this lethal complication and review the possible causes of sudden death occurring after coronary angiography.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Case Report: Sudden death after normal coronary angiography and possible causes'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5408511/', 'p': u'In light of the current national focus on healthcare utilization, costs,\nand quality, it is critical to monitor and understand the magnitude of\nhealthcare delivery and costs, as well as the quality of healthcare delivery,\nrelated to CVD risk factors and conditions. The Statistical Update provides\nthese critical data in several sections.Quality data are available from the AHA\u2019s \u201cGet With The\nGuidelines\u201d programs for coronary artery disease and heart failure and\nfrom the American Stroke Association/AHA\u2019s \u201cGet With The\nGuidelines\u201d program for acute stroke. Similar data from the Veterans\nHealthcare Administration, national Medicare and Medicaid data, and Acute\nCoronary Treatment and Intervention Outcomes Network\n(ACTION)\u2013\u201cGet With The Guidelines\u201d Registry data are\nalso reviewed. These data show impressive adherence to guideline recommendations\nfor many, but not all, metrics of quality of care for these hospitalized\npatients. Data are also reviewed on screening for CVD risk factor levels and\ncontrol.', 'kwd': u'cardiovascular diseases, epidemiology, risk factors, statistics, stroke', 'title': u'Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics\u20142013\nUpdate'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5124581/', 'p': u'Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) can be performed conventionally using cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and aortic clamping or on a beating heart (BH) without the use of CPB, the so-called off-pump CABG. Some surgeons, who are proponents of off-pump CABG, preferentially use this technique for the majority of operations, whereas others use it only in certain situations which warrant avoidance of CPB. Ever since the conception of off-pump CABG, the never-ending debate about which technique of CABG is safe and efficacious continues to date. Several randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have been conducted that have either favored on-pump CABG or have failed to show a significant difference in outcomes between the two techniques. However, these RCTs have been fraught with claims that they do not represent the majority of patients undergoing CABG in real world practice. Therefore, assessment of the benefits and drawbacks of each technique through observational and registry studies would be more representative of patients encountered in daily practice. The present review examines various retrospective studies and meta-analyses of observational studies that compare the early and long-term outcomes of off- and on-pump CABG, which assesses their safety and efficacy. Additionally, their outcomes in older patients, females, and those with diabetes mellitus, renal dysfunction, presence of ascending aortic disease, and/or acute coronary syndrome (ACS) have also been discussed separately. The general consensus is that early results of off-pump CABG are comparable to or in some cases better than on-pump CABG. However, on-pump CABG provides a survival benefit in the long term according to a majority of publications in literature.Patients with a high-risk profile are frequently excluded from RCTs, which may be the most likely cause of lack of results favoring off-pump CABG in RCTs. Such patients are usually the ones who are highly susceptible to the complications of CPB, which is why off-pump CABG would be expected to serve these patients better than on-pump CABG. A recent meta-analysis of 100 RCTs performed by Kowalewski et al. revealed a significant 28% reduction in the odds of cerebral stroke following off-pump CABG (P=0.009) (12). Additionally, a significant relationship between patient risk profile and benefits from off-pump surgery was found in terms of all-cause mortality (P<0.01), MI (P<0.01), and cerebral stroke (P<0.01). Marui and coworkers compared 1,377 patients undergoing on-pump CABG to 1,091 undergoing off-pump CABG in the Coronary Revascularization Demonstrating Outcome Study in Kyoto (CREDO-Kyoto) Registry by using propensity score-adjusted logistic regression or Cox proportional hazard models following division of all patients into tertiles based on the PROM for each patient (40). Propensity-adjusted 30-day mortality and MI were similar between groups, but the OR for 30-day stroke in on-pump compared with off-pump CABG patients was 8.3 (P=0.01) and that of the composite outcome including death, MI and stroke was 2.7 (P=0.03) in the intermediate risk and 2.6 (P=0.01) in the high-risk tertile. Although, off-pump surgery did not provide mortality benefit, it was associated with a lower risk of stroke in high-risk patients. This could have been be related to the sample size and small number of events. Dhurandhar and colleagues reviewed 7,822 high-risk patients in the Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic Surgeons\u2019 (ANZSCTS) database, who underwent isolated CABG surgery (7,277 on-pump CABG; 545 off-pump CABG). Apart from the higher percentage of older and female patients in the off-pump group, the risk profile of patients undergoing on-pump CABG was worse [higher incidence of MI, triple vessel disease, EF <30%, and preoperative intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) insertion]. Similar to the previous study, no significant difference was observed between the on- and off-pump groups in terms of 30-day and 1-year mortality (3.9% vs. 2.4%; 7.4% vs. 5.6%, respectively) (41). The occurrence of major neurological event rates (temporary and permanent) revealed a non-significant higher trend in patients undergoing on-pump CABG. But the beneficial effect of off-pump surgery was most evident by the significantly lower rate of new-onset AF, renal failure and need for blood transfusions.', 'kwd': u'Off-pump coronary artery bypass, real world outcomes', 'title': u'Current outcomes of off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting: evidence from real world practice'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5493079/', 'p': '-', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'36th International Symposium on Intensive Care and Emergency Medicine'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2413126/', 'p': u'This study was conducted to investigate the relationship between perceived work-related stress and preclinical atherosclerosis.A total of 100 managers and 50 office workers aged 35\u201365 participated in a questionnaire study. Individual, family and work-related stress risk factors and coping were evaluated in all the studied individuals. Serum levels of biochemical (total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, TG, glucose) and serological risk factors of atherosclerosis (anticardiolipin, anti-\u03b22 GPI, anti-oxLDL, anti-HSP and anti-hsCRP antibodies) were evaluated. A computer analysis of B-mode ultrasound images was used to assess carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT) and atherosclerotic plaque in carotid arteries. Statistical analysis was conducted with SPSS v. 11.5.', 'kwd': u'Work-related stress, Early atherosclerosis, Carotid arteries', 'title': u'Perceived work-related stress and early atherosclerotic changes in healthy employees'}], 'Coronary Artery Disease AND image segmentation': [{'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4430913/', 'p': u'Computerized tomographic angiography (3D data representing the coronary arteries) and X-ray angiography (2D X-ray image sequences providing information about coronary arteries and their stenosis) are standard and popular assessment tools utilized for medical diagnosis of coronary artery diseases. At present, the results of both modalities are individually analyzed by specialists and it is difficult for them to mentally connect the details of these two techniques. The aim of this work is to assist medical diagnosis by providing specialists with the relationship between computerized tomographic angiography and X-ray angiography.In this study, coronary arteries from two modalities are registered in order to create a 3D reconstruction of the stenosis position. The proposed method starts with coronary artery segmentation and labeling for both modalities. Then, stenosis and relevant labeled artery in X-ray angiography image are marked by a specialist. Proper control points for the marked artery in both modalities are automatically detected and normalized. Then, a geometrical transformation function is computed using these control points. Finally, this function is utilized to register the marked artery from the X-ray angiography image on the computerized tomographic angiography and get the 3D position of the stenosis lesion.', 'kwd': u'Angiography, Computerized tomography angiography, Segmentation, Labeling, Multimodal registration, 3D reconstruction', 'title': u'3D multimodal cardiac data reconstruction using angiography and computerized tomographic angiography registration'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4111838/', 'p': u'The authors are developing a computer-aided detection system to assist radiologists in analysis of coronary artery disease in coronary CT angiograms (cCTA). This study evaluated the accuracy of the authors\u2019 coronary artery segmentation and tracking method which are the essential steps to define the search space for the detection of atherosclerotic plaques.The heart region in cCTA is segmented and the vascular structures are enhanced using the authors\u2019 multiscale coronary artery response (MSCAR) method that performed 3D multiscale filtering and analysis of the eigenvalues of Hessian matrices. Starting from seed points at the origins of the left and right coronary arteries, a 3D rolling balloon region growing (RBG) method that adapts to the local vessel size segmented and tracked each of the coronary arteries and identifies the branches along the tracked vessels. The branches are queued and subsequently tracked until the queue is exhausted. With Institutional Review Board approval, 62 cCTA were collected retrospectively from the authors\u2019 patient files. Three experienced cardiothoracic radiologists manually tracked and marked center points of the coronary arteries as reference standard following the 17-segment model that includes clinically significant coronary arteries. Two radiologists visually examined the computer-segmented vessels and marked the mistakenly tracked veins and noisy structures as false positives (FPs). For the 62 cases, the radiologists marked a total of 10191 center points on 865 visible coronary artery segments.', 'kwd': u'coronary arteries, vessel segmentation, computer-aided detection, coronary artery diseases, atherosclerotic plaque, multiscale filtering', 'title': u'Computerized analysis of coronary artery disease: Performance evaluation of segmentation and tracking of coronary arteries in CT angiograms'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4848047/', 'p': u'Minimally invasive transcatheter technologies have demonstrated substantial promise for the diagnosis and the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. For example, transcatheter aortic valve implantation is an alternative to aortic valve replacement for the treatment of severe aortic stenosis, and transcatheter atrial fibrillation ablation is widely used for the treatment and the cure of atrial fibrillation. In addition, catheter-based intravascular ultrasound and optical coherence tomography imaging of coronary arteries provides important information about the coronary lumen, wall, and plaque characteristics. Qualitative and quantitative analysis of these cross-sectional image data will be beneficial to the evaluation and the treatment of coronary artery diseases such as atherosclerosis. In all the phases (preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative) during the transcatheter intervention procedure, computer vision techniques (e.g., image segmentation and motion tracking) have been largely applied in the field to accomplish tasks like annulus measurement, valve selection, catheter placement control, and vessel centerline extraction. This provides beneficial guidance for the clinicians in surgical planning, disease diagnosis, and treatment assessment. In this paper, we present a systematical review on these state-of-the-art methods. We aim to give a comprehensive overview for researchers in the area of computer vision on the subject of transcatheter intervention. Research in medical computing is multi-disciplinary due to its nature, and hence, it is important to understand the application domain, clinical background, and imaging modality, so that methods and quantitative measurements derived from analyzing the imaging data are appropriate and meaningful. We thus provide an overview on the background information of the transcatheter intervention procedures, as well as a review of the computer vision techniques and methodologies applied in this area.To date, there are four types of commercial transcatheter aortic valve prostheses (TAVP) available in the European market: the Sapien\xae valve by Edwards Lifesciences (Irvine, California, USA) [32], the CoreValve\xae revalving system by Medtronic (Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA) [33], the Jenavalve\xae by Jenavalve Technology (Munich, Germany) [34], and the Acurate TA\xae by Symetis (Ecublens, Switzerland) [35]. The Sapien\xae (stainless steel stent) and Sapien XT\xae (Cobalt-chromium stent) models were approved for both transapical and transfemoral approaches, and Sapien\xae is the only balloon-expandable TAVP in clinical use. The CoreValve\xae (Nitinol stent) system is a self-expandable TAVP, which was approved for transfemoral, subclavian and direct aortic approaches. Both Jenavalve\xae and Acurate TA\xae are self-expandable TAVP and they were approved for transapical procedure only. Recently, Symetis demonstrated the Acurate TF\xae at EuroPCR 2013 that can be delivered via transfemoral procedure. Fig. 5 shows examples of these heart valve models and Table 2 gives a summary of them. The impact of these heart valve prostheses is impressive. More than 40,000 TAVPs have been implanted worldwide, among which Germany is the leading country. In 2010, approximately 25% of all aortic valve replacements were performed with TAVP [43]. The total number of patients currently eligible for TAVI procedure is approximately 200,000, representing a $2B market worldwide.\n', 'kwd': u'Image processing, IVUS, medical imaging, OCT, reconstruction, registration, segmentation, transcatheter intervention, TAFA, TAVI, TMVR, TPVR, TTVI', 'title': u'Computer Vision Techniques for Transcatheter Intervention'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5456060/', 'p': u'Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is an established catheter-based imaging modality for the assessment of coronary artery disease and the guidance of stent placement during percutaneous coronary intervention. Manual analysis of large OCT datasets for vessel contours or stent struts detection is time-consuming and unsuitable for real-time applications. In this study, a fully automatic method was developed for detection of both vessel contours and stent struts. The method was applied to in vitro OCT scans of eight stented silicone bifurcation phantoms for validation purposes. The proposed algorithm comprised four main steps, namely pre-processing, lumen border detection, stent strut detection, and three-dimensional point cloud creation. The algorithm was validated against manual segmentation performed by two independent image readers. Linear regression showed good agreement between automatic and manual segmentations in terms of lumen area (r>0.99). No statistically significant differences in the number of detected struts were found between the segmentations. Mean values of similarity indexes were >95% and >85% for the lumen and stent detection, respectively. Stent point clouds of two selected cases, obtained after OCT image processing, were compared to the centerline points of the corresponding stent reconstructions from micro computed tomography, used as ground-truth. Quantitative comparison between the corresponding stent points resulted in median values of ~150 \u03bcm and ~40 \u03bcm for the total and radial distances of both cases, respectively. The repeatability of the detection method was investigated by calculating the lumen volume and the mean number of detected struts per frame for seven repeated OCT scans of one selected case. Results showed low deviation of values from the median for both analyzed quantities. In conclusion, this study presents a robust automatic method for detection of lumen contours and stent struts from OCT as supported by focused validation against both manual segmentation and micro computed tomography and by good repeatability.To test the repeatability of the lumen border detection algorithm, the lumen volume of each case was calculated as the sum of the lumen area per frame multiplied by the distance between the slices. The extremes of the stent were used as landmarks to establish the same region of interest between acquisitions. Regarding the strut detection algorithm, the mean of the number of detected struts per frame was computed for each case.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Reconstruction of stented coronary arteries from optical coherence tomography images: Feasibility, validation, and repeatability of a segmentation method'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4922813/', 'p': u'After a decade of clinical use of coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) to evaluate the anatomic severity of coronary artery disease, new methods of deriving functional information from CCTA have been developed. These methods utilize the anatomic information provided by CCTA in conjunction with computational fluid dynamics to calculate fractional flow reserve (FFR) values from CCTA image data sets. Computed tomography-derived FFR (CT-FFR) enables the identification of lesion-specific drop noninvasively. A three-dimensional CT-FFR modeling technique, which provides FFR values throughout the coronary tree (HeartFlow FFRCT analysis), has been validated against measured FFR and is now approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for clinical use. This technique requires off-site supercomputer analysis. More recently, a one-dimensional computational analysis technique (Siemens cFFR), which can be performed on on-site workstations, has been developed and is currently under investigation. This article reviews CT-FFR technology and clinical evidence for its use in stable patients with suspected coronary artery disease.Intermediate degrees of stenosis (30%\u201370%) present the greatest challenge in the diagnosis of CAD. Since hemodynamically significant lesions are occasionally observed in intermediate lesions with <70% stenosis,13 the use of invasive FFR is recommended to evaluate the function of intermediate coronary lesions as a class IIa indication.6 However, given the relatively lower prevalence of lesion-specific pressure drop caused by intermediate stenosis compared to that of severe stenosis in the FAME study,13 CT-derived FFR would be of great use for assessing the functional significance of intermediate lesions to avoid unnecessary ICA and help in treatment decision making. Table 2 provides a summary of the studies of FFRCT and cFFR. Similar to the overall diagnostic accuracy of CT-derived FFR, all studies demonstrated high diagnostic performance for intermediate stenosis, with the highest accuracy and specificity for FFRCT.24,31,38,39', 'kwd': u'fractional flow reserve, coronary computed tomographic angiography, FFRCT, cFFR', 'title': u'Noninvasive FFR derived from coronary CT angiography in the management of coronary artery disease: technology and clinical update'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5018003/', 'p': u'The authors are developing an automated method to identify the best-quality coronary arterial segment from multiple-phase coronary CT angiography (cCTA) acquisitions, which may be used by either interpreting physicians or computer-aided detection systems to optimally and efficiently utilize the diagnostic information available in multiple-phase cCTA for the detection of coronary artery disease.After initialization with a manually identified seed point, each coronary artery tree is automatically extracted from multiple cCTA phases using our multiscale coronary artery response enhancement and 3D rolling balloon region growing vessel segmentation and tracking method. The coronary artery trees from multiple phases are then aligned by a global registration using an affine transformation with quadratic terms and nonlinear simplex optimization, followed by a local registration using a cubic B-spline method with fast localized optimization. The corresponding coronary arteries among the available phases are identified using a recursive coronary segment matching method. Each of the identified vessel segments is transformed by the curved planar reformation (CPR) method. Four features are extracted from each corresponding segment as quality indicators in the original computed tomography volume and the straightened CPR volume, and each quality indicator is used as a voting classifier for the arterial segment. A weighted voting ensemble (WVE) classifier is designed to combine the votes of the four voting classifiers for each corresponding segment. The segment with the highest WVE vote is then selected as the best-quality segment. In this study, the training and test sets consisted of 6 and 20 cCTA cases, respectively, each with 6 phases, containing a total of 156 cCTA volumes and 312 coronary artery trees. An observer preference study was also conducted with one expert cardiothoracic radiologist and four nonradiologist readers to visually rank vessel segment quality. The performance of our automated method was evaluated by comparing the automatically identified best-quality segments identified by the computer to those selected by the observers.', 'kwd': u'coronary CT angiography, image analysis, computer-aided reading', 'title': u'Coronary artery analysis: Computer-assisted selection of best-quality segments in multiple-phase coronary CT angiography'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4499869/', 'p': u'The initial course of atherosclerotic disease is thought to begin in early adulthood. In young adults lesions in the arterial vessel wall have been observed surprisingly frequently13 but the prognostic relevance of early, adaptive or reversible changes like \u201cfatty streak\u201d or intimal thickening remains a matter of debate. Pathology studies seek to integrate autopsy findings from various stages of atherosclerosis to provide a putative sequence of events4. In brief, intimal thickening is observed early in the disease process. The early atherosclerotic lesion is composed of smooth muscle cells and is affected by increased macrophage and lipid influx. If this process continues, a necrotic core is formed and the lesion progresses to a fibrous cap atheroma. The necrotic core contains lipids and apoptotic macrophages. A stable fibrous cap may prevent rupture of the lesion. If the fibrous cap loses matrix proteins and smooth muscle cells, a thin cap atheroma can result. Intraplaque hemorrhage is also seen frequently in this entity, leading to further enlargement of the lipid core. The risk of plaque rupture is increased as the fibrous cap thins and the lipid core enlarges14. The \u201cfibrocalcific plaque\u201d is considered to be a feature of more stable plaque, although the processes involved in calcification are not fully understood.It is generally conceived that therapeutic intervention for atherosclerosisis most effective when started at an early stage of the progressive disease process 15. Imaging tools have provided a substantial database of knowledge regarding disease burden. Imaging of the larger surface vessels (carotid or femoral arteries) has been extensively used to detect early systemic vascular pathology 16. Calcium detection using non-contrast CT provides a direct approach to assessing coronary atherosclerosis burden. The coronary artery calcium score has strong predictive power for cardiovascular events in asymptomatic subjects17. However, calcium deposition is felt to be a late event in the formation of atherosclerotic plaque. The relevance of non-calcified plaque is emphasized by prospective IVUS studies that show coronary fibroatheroma without significant calcification confers an elevated risk for myocardial infarction 18. Non-calcified plaque is more common than calcified plaque in asymptomatic individuals younger than 45 years. The ability to noninvasively image non-calcified plaque or wall thickening of the coronary arteries using MRI or CT enables the detection of earlier stages of atherosclerotic disease 19, 20.', 'kwd': u'imaging, coronary disease, plaque, atherosclerosis', 'title': u'Noninvasive Imaging of Atherosclerotic Plaque Progression: Status of Coronary CT Angiography'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3750415/', 'p': u'Author contributions: Guarantors of integrity of entire study, Y.H., J.L.N., G.S.K.; study concepts/study design or data acquisition or data analysis/interpretation, all authors; manuscript drafting or manuscript revision for important intellectual content, all authors; manuscript final version approval, all authors; literature research, Y.H., T.W., D.L.B., G.S.K.; clinical studies, S.S., J.L.N.; statistical analysis, Y.H., T.W., G.S.K.; and manuscript editing, Y.H., T.W., J.S.C., S.S., S.D.T., D.L.B., G.S.K.To provide proof of concept for a diagnostic method to assess diffuse coronary artery disease (CAD) on the basis of coronary computed tomography (CT) angiography.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'CT-based Diagnosis of Diffuse Coronary Artery Disease on the Basis of Scaling Power Laws'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4355954/', 'p': u'Epicardial fat may play a role in the pathogenesis of coronary artery disease (CAD). We explored the relationship of epicardial fat volume (EFV) with the presence and severity of CAD or myocardial perfusion abnormalities in a diverse, symptomatic patient population.In a diverse population of symptomatic patients referred for invasive coronary angiography, we did not find associations of epicardial fat volume with the presence and severity of coronary artery disease or with myocardial perfusion abnormalities. The clinical significance of quantifying epicardial fat volume remains uncertain but may relate to the pathophysiology of acute coronary events rather than the presence of atherosclerotic disease.', 'kwd': u'epicardial fat, pericardial fat, coronary artery disease, coronary artery calcification, coronary artery stenosis, myocardial ischemia', 'title': u'Lack of Association Between Epicardial Fat Volume and Extent of Coronary Artery Calcification, Severity of Coronary Artery Disease, or Presence of Myocardial Perfusion Abnormalities in a Diverse, Symptomatic Patient Population: Results from the CORE320 Multicenter Study'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2947500/', 'p': u'Conceived and designed the experiments: WJM JW JMAvE RMB TL. Performed the experiments: SCG. Analyzed the data: SCG MEK AGK SS TL. Contributed reagents/materials/analysis tools: RJvdG. Wrote the paper: SCG MEK AGK SS MK RJvdG WJM JW JMAvE RMB TL. Data interpretation and supervision: MEK JvE TL. Statistical analysis: AK. Assistance with data acquisition in early phase of study: MK. Developed MR method: RB. Handled funding: TL.Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is sensitive to early atherosclerotic changes such as positive remodeling in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). We assessed prevalence, quality, and extent of coronary atherosclerosis in a group of healthy subjects compared to patients with confirmed CAD.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Visualization of Coronary Wall Atherosclerosis in Asymptomatic Subjects and Patients with Coronary Artery Disease Using Magnetic Resonance Imaging'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3840080/', 'p': u'A collaborative framework was initiated to establish a community resource of ground truth segmentations from cardiac MRI. Multi-site, multi-vendor cardiac MRI datasets comprising 95 patients (73 men, 22 women; mean age 62.73 \xb1 11.24 years) with coronary artery disease and prior myocardial infarction, were randomly selected from data made available by the Cardiac Atlas Project (Fonseca et al., 2011). Three semi- and two fully-automated raters segmented the left ventricular myocardium from short-axis cardiac MR images as part of a challenge introduced at the STACOM 2011 MICCAI workshop (Suinesiaputra et al., 2012). Consensus myocardium images were generated based on the Expectation-Maximization principle implemented by the STAPLE algorithm (Warfield et al., 2004). The mean sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive and negative predictive values ranged between 0.63-0.85, 0.60-0.98, 0.56-0.94 and 0.83-0.92, respectively, against the STAPLE consensus. Spatial and temporal agreement varied in different amounts for each rater. STAPLE produced high quality consensus images if the region of interest was limited to the area of discrepancy between raters. To maintain the quality of the consensus, an objective measure based on the candidate automated rater performance distribution is proposed. The consensus segmentation based on a combination of manual and automated raters were more consistent than any particular rater, even those with manual input. The consensus is expected to improve with the addition of new automated contributions. This resource is open for future contributions, and is available as a test bed for the evaluation of new segmentation algorithms, through the Cardiac Atlas Project (www.cardiacatlas.org).The Guide-Point Modeling technique (Li et al., 2010) was used to assist the fitting of a finite element cardiac model to the CMR data. This approach involves human observer input to refine the segmentation results by positioning a small number of guide points interactively on a sparse subset of slices and frames. Both long axis and short axis images were included in the analysis. The model incorporated the basal margin of the left ventricle as a plane, which was least squares fit to points placed by the user on the hinge points of the mitral valve in the long axis images. The model surfaces were influenced by the placement of user-defined guide points, and the automatic generation of edge points as well as the automated tracking of contours through all frames using non-rigid registration. The model was spatially and temporally consistent to reduce the amount of user interaction. However, inconsistency in breath-hold position can lead to mismatches between the short and long axis images. Images were manually shifted in-plane to compensate for breath-hold mis-registration, but individual slices may show errors in segmentation due to inconsistency with surrounding images in space and time. This expert-guided method has been previously validated in animals against autopsy LV mass, in patients with regional wall motion abnormalities against manually drawn contours, and in healthy volunteers against flow-derived measurements of cardiac output (Young et al., 2000). This method required expert approval of all slices and for all frames.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'A Collaborative Resource to Build Consensus for Automated Left Ventricular Segmentation of Cardiac MR Images'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3175011/', 'p': u'To evaluate our prototype method for segmentation and tracking of the coronary arterial tree, which is the foundation for a computer-aided detection (CADe) system to be developed to assist radiologists in detecting non-calcified plaques in coronary CT angiography (cCTA) scans.The heart region was first extracted by a morphological operation and an adaptive thresholding method based on expectation-maximization (EM) estimation. The vascular structures within the heart region were enhanced and segmented using a multiscale coronary response (MSCAR) method that combined 3D multiscale filtering, analysis of the eigen values of Hessian matrices and EM estimation segmentation. After the segmentation of vascular structures, the coronary arteries were tracked by a 3D dynamic balloon tracking (DBT) method. The DBT method started at two manually identified seed points located at the origins of the left and right coronary arteries (LCA and RCA) for extraction of the arterial trees. The coronary arterial trees of a data set containing 20 ECG-gated contrast-enhanced cCTA scans were extracted by our MSCAR-DBT method and a clinical GE Advantage workstation. Two experienced thoracic radiologists visually examined the coronary arteries on the original cCTA scans and the rendered volume of segmented vessels to count the untracked false-negative (FN) segments and false positives (FPs) for both methods.', 'kwd': u'Computer-aided detection, coronary artery tracking, vessel segmentation', 'title': u'Automated coronary artery tree extraction in coronary CT angiography using a multiscale enhancement and dynamic balloon tracking (MSCAR-DBT) method'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4830888/', 'p': u'Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) has become a key imaging modality in clinical cardiology practice due to its unique capabilities for non-invasive imaging of the cardiac chambers and great vessels. A wide range of CMR sequences have been developed to assess various aspects of cardiac structure and function, and significant advances have also been made in terms of imaging quality and acquisition times. A lot of research has been dedicated to the development of global and regional quantitative CMR indices that help the distinction between health and pathology. The goal of this review paper is to discuss the structural and functional CMR indices that have been proposed thus far for clinical assessment of the cardiac chambers. We include indices definitions, the requirements for the calculations, exemplar applications in cardiovascular diseases, and the corresponding normal ranges. Furthermore, we review the most recent state-of-the art techniques for the automatic segmentation of the cardiac boundaries, which are necessary for the calculation of the CMR indices. Finally, we provide a detailed discussion of the existing literature and of the future challenges that need to be addressed to enable a more robust and comprehensive assessment of the cardiac chambers in clinical practice.In this section, we briefly describe the anatomy of the heart to help readers establish a better association between the outcomes of various functional analysis methods and the actual structure of the heart (see Fig.\xa01). Essentially, the heart provides the blood circulation system with indispensable pressure. By contracting and relaxing in turns, it transports blood to different parts of the body through the vessels. The septum separates the heart into two halves that consist of an atrium and a ventricle. The left atrium (LA) and left ventricle (LV) are partitioned by the mitral valve, while the right atrium (RA) and the right ventricle (RV) are partitioned by the tricuspid valve. The semilunar valves are located between the pulmonary artery or the aorta and the ventricle. The RA recycles the low-oxygen blood while the RV delivers it to the lung. After it is oxygenated, the blood flows into the LA, while the LV pumps it to the rest of the body. The myocardium, the muscular tissue of the heart has an inner and outer border: the endocardium and the epicardium, respectively.', 'kwd': u'Cardiac segmentation, MRI, Clinical assessment', 'title': u'A review of heart chamber segmentation for structural and functional analysis using cardiac magnetic resonance imaging'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3841469/', 'p': u'Coronary artery disease (CAD) is one of the leading causes of death in the US and a substantial health-care burden in all industrialized societies. In recent years we have witnessed a constant strive towards the development and the clinical application of novel or improved detection methods as well as therapies. Particularly, noninvasive imaging is a decisive component in the cardiovascular field. Image fusion is the ability of combining into a single integrated display the anatomical as well as the physiological data retrieved by separated modalities. Clinical evidence suggests that it represents a promising strategy in CAD assessment and risk stratification by significantly improving the diagnostic power of each modality independently considered and of the traditional side-by-side interpretation. Numerous techniques and approaches taken from the image registration field have been implemented and validated in the context of CAD assessment and management. Although its diagnostic power is widely accepted, additional technical developments are still needed to become a routinely used clinical tool.Clinical evidence suggests that image fusion can be a reliable and useful tool in the hands of clinicians for a more accurate diagnosis of CAD, specifically for ambiguous and borderline cases. Additional technical developments in the extraction of anatomical information are still in order for the whole procedure to become fully automated and enter the clinical practice.', 'kwd': u'image fusion, CAD diagnosis, computed tomography angiography, nuclear imaging', 'title': u'Multimodality image fusion for diagnosing coronary artery disease'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3906085/', 'p': u'Conceived and designed the experiments: TL GSK. Performed the experiments: TL. Analyzed the data: TL TW YH. Contributed reagents/materials/analysis tools: TL TW YH. Wrote the paper: TL GSK. Data Collection: BKK.Accurate computed tomography (CT)-based reconstruction of coronary morphometry (diameters, length, bifurcation angles) is important for construction of patient-specific models to aid diagnosis and therapy. The objective of this study is to validate the accuracy of patient coronary artery lumen area obtained from CT images based on intravascular ultrasound (IVUS).', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'IVUS Validation of Patient Coronary Artery Lumen Area Obtained from CT Images'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4263628/', 'p': u'Author contributions: Guarantors of integrity of entire study, J.A.C.L., J.B.M., D.A.B.; study concepts/study design or data acquisition or data analysis/interpretation, all authors; manuscript drafting or manuscript revision for important intellectual content, all authors; manuscript final version approval, all authors; literature research, A.C.K., G.C., C.T.S., J.A.C.L., D.L.L., D.A.B.; clinical studies, C.T.S., D.L.L., J.B.M., D.A.B.; statistical analysis, H.T.M., G.C., C.T.S., D.L.L.; and manuscript editing, A.C.K., H.T.M., G.C., C.T.S., B.D.R., J.A.C.L., D.L.L., J.B.M., D.A.B.The extent of coronary plaque in asymptomatic diabetic patients is related to body mass index and duration of diabetes.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Coronary Artery Plaque Volume and Obesity in Patients with Diabetes: The Factor-64 Study'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4213417/', 'p': u'Computed tomography (CT) angiography represents the most important technical development in CT imaging and it has challenged invasive angiography in the diagnostic evaluation of cardiovascular abnormalities. Over the last decades, technological evolution in CT imaging has enabled CT angiography to become a first-line imaging modality in the diagnosis of cardiovascular disease. This review provides an overview of the diagnostic applications of CT angiography (CTA) in cardiovascular disease, with a focus on selected clinical challenges in some common cardiovascular abnormalities, which include abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA), aortic dissection, pulmonary embolism (PE) and coronary artery disease. An evidence-based review is conducted to demonstrate how CT angiography has changed our approach in the diagnosis and management of cardiovascular disease. Radiation dose reduction strategies are also discussed to show how CT angiography can be performed in a low-dose protocol in the current clinical practice.CT angiography represents the most important development in CT imaging, and it has evolved from the initial role of serving as a supplementary modality to an essential tool that plays an important role in the diagnosis and management of cardiovascular disease which involves arterial system in the body. Technological advancements in CT data acquisition and image processing techniques have enabled this technique to become a routine imaging modality in daily clinical practice. With emergence of novel CT scanner geometries, advanced data reconstruction and postprocessing techniques, CT angiography will continue to play a dominant role in the diagnosis of cardiovascular disease, prediction of disease extent and assistance of clinicians in effective patient management.', 'kwd': u'Cardiovascular disease, computed tomography angiography (CTA), diagnosis, visualisation', 'title': u'CT angiography in the diagnosis of cardiovascular disease: a transformation in cardiovascular CT practice'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5594598/', 'p': u'The use of coronary MR angiography (CMRA) in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) remains limited due to the long scan times, unpredictable and often non-diagnostic image quality secondary to respiratory motion artifacts. The purpose of this study was to evaluate CMRA with image-based respiratory navigation (iNAV CMRA) and compare it to gold standard invasive x-ray coronary angiography in patients with CAD.Consecutive patients referred for CMR assessment were included to undergo iNAV CMRA on a 1.5\xa0T scanner. Coronary vessel sharpness and a visual score were assigned to the coronary arteries. A diagnostic reading was performed on the iNAV CMRA data, where a lumen narrowing >50% was considered diseased. This was compared to invasive x-ray findings.', 'kwd': u'Coronary MR angiography, Image navigators, Respiratory motion correction, Coronary artery disease', 'title': u'Diagnostic performance of image navigated coronary CMR angiography in patients with coronary artery disease'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4833122/', 'p': u'In this paper we report the set-up and results of the Multimodal Brain Tumor Image Segmentation Benchmark (BRATS) organized in conjunction with the MICCAI 2012 and 2013 conferences. Twenty state-of-the-art tumor segmentation algorithms were applied to a set of 65 multi-contrast MR scans of low- and high-grade glioma patients\u2014manually annotated by up to four raters\u2014and to 65 comparable scans generated using tumor image simulation software. Quantitative evaluations revealed considerable disagreement between the human raters in segmenting various tumor sub-regions (Dice scores in the range 74%\u201385%), illustrating the difficulty of this task. We found that different algorithms worked best for different sub-regions (reaching performance comparable to human inter-rater variability), but that no single algorithm ranked in the top for all sub-regions simultaneously. Fusing several good algorithms using a hierarchical majority vote yielded segmentations that consistently ranked above all individual algorithms, indicating remaining opportunities for further methodological improvements. The BRATS image data and manual annotations continue to be publicly available through an online evaluation system as an ongoing benchmarking resource.Table II contains an overview of the methods used by the participating groups in both challenges. In 2012, four out of the twelve participants used generative models, one was a generative-discriminative approach, and five were discriminative; seven used some spatially regularizing model component. Two methods required manual initialization. The two automated segmentation methods that topped the list of competitors during the on-site challenge of the first benchmark used a discriminative probabilistic approach relying on a random forest classifier, boosting the popularity of this approach in the second year. As a result, in 2013 participants employed one generative model, one discriminative-generative model, and eight discriminative models out of which a total of four used random forests as the central learning algorithm; seven had a processing step that enforced spatial regularization. One method required manual initialization. A detailed description of each method is available in the workshop proceedings,3 as well as in the Appendix/Online Supporting Information.', 'kwd': u'MRI, Brain, Oncology/tumor, Image segmentation, Benchmark', 'title': u'The Multimodal Brain Tumor Image Segmentation Benchmark (BRATS)'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5422837/', 'p': u'During the last decade coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) has become the preeminent non-invasive imaging modality to detect coronary artery disease (CAD) with high accuracy. However, CTA has a limited value in assessing the hemodynamic significance of a given stenosis due to a modest specificity and positive predictive value. In recent years, different CT techniques for detecting myocardial ischemia have emerged, such as CT-derived fractional flow reserve (FFR-CT), transluminal attenuation gradient (TAG), and myocardial CT perfusion (CTP) imaging. Myocardial CTP imaging can be performed with a single static scan during first pass of the contrast agent, with monoenergetic or dual-energy acquisition, or as a dynamic, time-resolved scan during stress by using coronary vasodilator agents (adenosine, dipyridamole, or regadenoson). A number of CTP techniques are available, which can assess myocardial perfusion in both a qualitative, semi-quantitative or quantitative manner. Once used primarily as research tools, these modalities are increasingly being used in routine clinical practice. All these techniques offer the substantial advantage of combining anatomical and functional evaluation of flow-limiting coronary stenosis in the same examination that would be beneficial for clinical decision-making. This review focuses on the state-of the-art and future trends of these evolving imaging modalities in the field of cardiology for the physiologic assessments of CAD.The FFR-CT method allows the extraction of \u2018stress induced\u2019 quantitative functional information from an anatomic CTA of at least moderate quality acquired at rest without adenosine infusion. The method uses computational fluid dynamics with simulated hyperemia to calculate the FFR measurement at any point in the vascular tree (39). The concept of coronary FFR, defined as the ratio of the mean coronary pressure distal to a coronary stenosis to the mean aortic pressure during maximal coronary blood flow, has evolved into an accepted functional measure of stenosis severity since first proposed 15 years ago (22). FFR has now become the invasive gold standard for assessing lesion-specific ischemia. A FFR value less than 0.80 or less than 0.75 identifies hemodynamic significance of coronary stenosis (7,8). FFR-CT correlates well with invasive-derived FFR measurements in patients with suspected or known CAD (17,39,40). One of the temporary drawbacks is that FFR-CT needs extreme computational ability and analysis time, which hampers widespread dissemination.', 'kwd': u'Cardiac computed tomography, coronary artery disease (CAD), stress imaging, myocardial perfusion imaging, myocardial blood flow quantification', 'title': u'Myocardial blood flow quantification for evaluation of coronary artery disease by computed tomography'}], 'Coronary Artery Disease AND Artificial Intelligence': [{'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5042924/', 'p': '-', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'ESICM LIVES 2016: part one'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4877137/', 'p': u'Quantitative analysis of SPECT and PET has become a major part of nuclear\ncardiology practice. Current software tools can automatically segment the left\nventricle, quantify function, establish myocardial perfusion maps and estimate\nglobal and local measures of stress/rest perfusion \u2013 all with minimal\nuser input. State-of-the-art automated techniques have been shown to offer high\ndiagnostic accuracy for detecting coronary artery disease, as well as predict\nprognostic outcomes. This chapter briefly reviews these techniques, highlights\nseveral challenges and discusses the latest developments.The first step in quantification of perfusion and function is\nsegmentation of the LV from both gated and static reconstructed data.\nSegmentation of the myocardium may sometimes be challenging due to possible\nlarge perfusion defects, extra-cardiac activity, and image noise. Typically, the\nmost common sources of incorrect automated contours are gut activity and\nincorrect definition of the valve plane (Figure\n1). Nonetheless, current software tools allow accurate automatic\ndefinition of LV contours in up to 90%.2 Incorrect segmentation in the minority of cases\ncan result in spurious defects mimicking perfusion abnormalities, and therefore,\nsome supervision by an experienced observer is still required during this step.\nHowever, this can be accomplished by an experienced technologist, prior to scan\ninterpretation. Furthermore, recent software developments, which are discussed\nin this review, can be used to check automated LV contours, allowing readers to\ntarget manual adjustment only to those studies flagged by the algorithm for\npotential errors.', 'kwd': u'SPECT, PET, automated quantitation, myocardial function, left ventricular ejection fraction, myocardial perfusion, total perfusion deficit, ischemia', 'title': u'Automated Quantitative Nuclear Cardiology Methods'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3615055/', 'p': u'957 rest/stress 99mtechnetium gated MPS NC studies from 623 consecutive patients with correlating invasive coronary angiography and 334 with low likelihood of CAD (LLK < 5% ) were assessed. Patients with stenosis \u2265 50% in left main or \u2265 70% in all other vessels were considered abnormal. Total perfusion deficit (TPD) was computed automatically. In addition, ischemic changes (ISCH) and ejection fraction changes (EFC) between stress and rest were derived by quantitative software. The SVM was trained using a group of 125 pts (25 LLK, 25 0-, 25 1-, 25 2- and 25 3-vessel CAD) using above quantitative variables and second order polynomial fitting. The remaining patients (N = 832) were categorized based on probability estimates, with CAD defined as (probability estimate \u2265 0.50). The diagnostic accuracy of SVM was also compared to visual segmental scoring by two experienced readers.Sensitivity of SVM (84%) was significantly better than ISCH (75%, p < 0.05) and EFC (31%, p < 0.05). Specificity of SVM (88%) was significantly better than that of TPD (78%, p < 0.05) and EFC (77%, p < 0.05). Diagnostic accuracy of SVM (86%) was significantly better than TPD (81%), ISCH (81%), or EFC (46%) (p < 0.05 for all). The Receiver-operator-characteristic area-under-the-curve (ROC-AUC) for SVM (0.92) was significantly better than TPD (0.90), ISCH (0.87), and EFC (0.60) (p < 0.001 for all). Diagnostic accuracy of SVM was comparable to the overall accuracy of both visual readers (85% vs. 84%, p < 0.05). ROC-AUC for SVM (0.92) was significantly better than that of both visual readers (0.87 and 0.88, p < 0.03).', 'kwd': u'Automated Quantification, Coronary Artery Disease, Myocardial Perfusion SPECT, Total Perfusion Deficit, Support Vector Machines, Machine Learning', 'title': u'Improved Accuracy of Myocardial Perfusion SPECT for the Detection of Coronary Artery Disease by Utilizing a Support Vector Machines Algorithm'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4003794/', 'p': u'In the past decades, medical data mining has become a popular data mining subject. Researchers have proposed several tools and various methodologies for developing effective medical expert systems. Diagnosing heart diseases is one of the important topics and many researchers have tried to develop intelligent medical expert systems to help the physicians. In this paper, we propose the use of PSO algorithm with a boosting approach to extract rules for recognizing the presence or absence of coronary artery disease in a patient. The weight of training examples that are classified properly by the new rules is reduced by a boosting mechanism. Therefore, in the next rule generation cycle, the focus is on those fuzzy rules that account for the currently misclassified or uncovered instances. We have used coronary artery disease data sets taken from University of California Irvine, (UCI), to evaluate our new classification approach. Results show that the proposed method can detect the coronary artery disease with an acceptable accuracy. Also, the discovered rules have significant interpretability as well.Andras Janosi, M.D. degree holder, collected this data set at the Hungarian Institute of Cardiology, Budapest. The format of this data set is the same as that of the Cleveland data. Class distributions are 37.5% heart disease present and 62.5% heart disease absent.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Coronary Artery Disease Detection Using a Fuzzy-Boosting PSO Approach'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3563765/', 'p': u'995 rest/stress 99mTc-sestamibi MPS studies, [650 consecutive cases with coronary angiography and 345 with likelihood of CAD < 5% (LLk)] were obtained by MPS with AC. Total perfusion deficit (TPD) for AC and NC data were compared to the visual summed stress and rest scores of 2 experienced readers. Visual reads were performed in 4 consecutive steps with the following information progressively revealed: NC data, AC+NC data, computer results, all clinical information.The diagnostic accuracy of TPD for detection of CAD was similar to both readers (NC: 82% vs. 84%, AC: 86% vs. 85\u201387% p = NS) with the exception of second reader when using clinical information (89%, p < 0.05). The Receiver-Operator-Characteristics Areas-Under-Curve (ROC-AUC) for TPD were significantly better than visual reads for NC (0.91 vs. 0.87 and 0.89, p < 0.01) and AC (0.92 vs. 0.90, p < 0.01), and it was comparable to visual reads incorporating all clinical information. Per-vessel accuracy of TPD was superior to one reader for NC (81% vs. 77%, p < 0.05) and AC (83% vs. 78%, p < 0.05) and equivalent to second reader [NC (79%) and AC (81%)]. Per-vessel ROC-AUC for NC (0.83) and AC (0.84) for TPD were better than (0.78\u20130.80 p < 0.01), and comparable to second reader (0.82\u20130.84, p = NS), for all steps.', 'kwd': u'Automated Quantification, Coronary Artery Disease, Myocardial Perfusion SPECT, Total Perfusion Deficit', 'title': u'Comparison of Fully Automated Computer Analysis and Visual Scoring for Detection of Coronary Artery Disease from Myocardial Perfusion SPECT in a Large Population'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4547801/', 'p': u'Conceived and designed the experiments: KPL ANA VK ZX SC SNM RMP PS IK SYS EWK TC. Performed the experiments: KPL ANA VK ZX AC VSG SG PC GKS DA JYL SYS TC. Analyzed the data: KPL ANA VK ZX DA SYS TC. Wrote the paper: KPL ANA VK ZX AC VSG SG PC GKS DA SC JYL SNM RMP PS IK SYS EWK TC.Typically, algorithms to classify phenotypes using electronic medical record (EMR) data were developed to perform well in a specific patient population. There is increasing interest in analyses which can allow study of a specific outcome across different diseases. Such a study in the EMR would require an algorithm that can be applied across different patient populations. Our objectives were: (1) to develop an algorithm that would enable the study of coronary artery disease (CAD) across diverse patient populations; (2) to study the impact of adding narrative data extracted using natural language processing (NLP) in the algorithm. Additionally, we demonstrate how to implement CAD algorithm to compare risk across 3 chronic diseases in a preliminary study.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Methods to Develop an Electronic Medical Record Phenotype Algorithm to Compare the Risk of Coronary Artery Disease across 3 Chronic Disease Cohorts'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5680364/', 'p': u'Artificial neural networks (ANN) might help to diagnose coronary artery disease. This study aimed to determine whether the diagnostic accuracy of an ANN-based diagnostic system and conventional quantitation are comparable.The ANN was trained to classify potentially abnormal areas as true or false based on the nuclear cardiology expert interpretation of 1001 gated stress/rest 99mTc-MIBI images at 12 hospitals. The diagnostic accuracy of the ANN was compared with 364 expert interpretations that served as the gold standard of abnormality for the validation study. Conventional summed stress/rest/difference scores (SSS/SRS/SDS) were calculated and compared with receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis.', 'kwd': u'Artificial intelligence, Diagnostic imaging, Coronary artery disease, Nuclear cardiology, Computer-aided diagnosis', 'title': u'Diagnostic accuracy of an artificial neural network compared with statistical quantitation of myocardial perfusion images: a Japanese multicenter study'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5408514/', 'p': u'Echocardiographic analysis of mitral valve (MV) has become essential for diagnosis and management of patients with MV disease. Currently, the various software used for MV analysis require manual input and are prone to interobserver variability in the measurements.The aim of this study is to determine the interobserver variability in an automated software that uses artificial intelligence for MV analysis.', 'kwd': u'Artificial intelligence, eSie Valve Software, interobserver variability, mitral valve, mitral valve analysis', 'title': u'Artificial Intelligence in Mitral Valve Analysis'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4859156/', 'p': u'We aimed to investigate if early revascularization in patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) can be effectively predicted by integrating clinical data and quantitative image features derived from perfusion SPECT (MPS) by machine learning (ML) approach.713 rest 201Thallium/stress 99mTechnetium MPS studies with correlating invasive angiography (372 revascularization events (275 PCI / 97 CABG) within 90 days after MPS (91% within 30 days) were considered. Transient ischemic dilation (TID), stress combined supine/prone total perfusion deficit (TPD), quantitative rest and stress TPD, exercise ejection fraction, and end-systolic volume along with clinical parameters including patient gender, history of hypertension and diabetes mellitus, ST-depression on baseline ECG, ECG and clinical response during stress, and post-ECG probability by boosted ensemble ML algorithm (LogitBoost) to predict revascularization events. These features were selected using an automated feature selection algorithm from all available clinical and quantitative data (33 parameters). 10-fold cross-validation was utilized to train and test the prediction model. The prediction of revascularization by ML algorithm was compared to standalone measures of perfusion and visual analysis by two experienced readers utilizing all imaging, quantitative, and clinical data.', 'kwd': u'Machine Learning, Coronary Artery Disease, Myocardial Perfusion SPECT, Revascularization, Total Perfusion Deficit', 'title': u'Prediction of Revascularization after Myocardial Perfusion SPECT by Machine Learning in a Large Population'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3808723/', 'p': u'\nBackground. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a complex, multifactorial disease in which personality seems to play a role but with no definition in combination with other risk factors. Objective. To explore the nonlinear and simultaneous pathways between traditional and personality traits risk factors and coronary stenosis by Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) data mining analysis. Method. Seventy-five subjects were examined for traditional cardiac risk factors and personality traits. Analyses were based on a new data mining method using a particular artificial adaptive system, the autocontractive map (AutoCM). Results. Several traditional Cardiovascular Risk Factors (CRF) present significant relations with coronary artery plaque (CAP) presence or severity. Moreover, anger turns out to be the main factor of personality for CAP in connection with numbers of traditional risk factors. Hidden connection map showed that anger, hostility, and the Type D personality subscale social inhibition are the core factors related to the traditional cardiovascular risk factors (CRF) specifically by hypertension. Discussion. This study shows a nonlinear and simultaneous pathway between traditional risk factors and personality traits associated with coronary stenosis in CAD patients without history of cardiovascular disease. In particular, anger seems to be the main personality factor for CAP in addition to traditional risk factors.The following traditional cardiac risk factors were examined: hypertension: arterial blood pressure \u2265 140/90\u2009mm\u2009Hg or taking antihypertensive medications [16]; diabetes: nonfasting plasma glucose concentration of at least 200\u2009mg/dL (11.1\u2009mmol/L), or fasting plasma glucose level of at least 126\u2009mg/dL (7.0\u2009mmol/L), or being treated with antidiabetic medication; overweight: body mass index (BMI) (calculated as weight divided by height squared) \u226527\u2009kg/m2 (WHO); dyslipidemia: total serum cholesterol level is higher than 240\u2009mg/dL or a serum triglyceride level is 200\u2009mg/dL or more (or both) or use of a lipid-lowering agent; smoking: at least one cigarette per day or quit smoking during the previous year; family history of CAD: a first degree or second degree relative with premature cardiovascular disease (age \u2264 55 years).', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Combining Personality Traits with Traditional Risk Factors for Coronary Stenosis: An Artificial Neural Networks Solution in Patients with Computed Tomography Detected Coronary Artery Disease'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3732038/', 'p': u'We aimed to improve the diagnostic accuracy of myocardial perfusion SPECT (MPS) by integrating clinical data and quantitative image features with machine learning (ML) algorithms.1,181 rest 201Tl/stress 99mTc-sestamibi dual-isotope MPS studies [713 consecutive cases with correlating invasive coronary angiography (ICA) and suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) and 468 with low likelihood (LLk) of CAD <5%] were considered. Cases with stenosis <70% by ICA and LLk of CAD were considered normal. Total stress perfusion deficit (TPD) for supine/prone data, stress/rest perfusion change, and transient ischemic dilatation were derived by automated perfusion quantification software and were combined with age, sex, and post-electrocardiogram CAD probability by a boosted ensemble ML algorithm (Logit-Boost). The diagnostic accuracy of the model for prediction of obstructive CAD \u226570% was compared to standard prone/supine quantification and to visual analysis by two experienced readers utilizing all imaging, quantitative, and clinical data. Tenfold stratified cross-validation was performed.', 'kwd': u'Myocardial perfusion imaging, SPECT automated quantification, coronary artery disease, total perfusion deficit, machine learning', 'title': u'Improved accuracy of myocardial perfusion SPECT for detection of coronary artery disease by machine learning in a large population'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1964229/', 'p': '-', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Artificial intelligence in medicine.'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3820488/', 'p': u'Recently introduced high-efficiency (HE) SPECT cameras with solid-state CZT detectors have been shown to decrease imaging time and reduce radiation exposure to patients. An automated, computer derived quantification of HE MPI has been shown to correlate well with coronary angiography on one HE SPECT camera system (D-SPECT), but has not been compared to visual interpretation on any of the HE SPECT platforms.Patients undergoing a clinically indicated Tc-99m sestamibi HE SPECT (GE Discovery 530c with supine and prone imaging) study over a one year period followed by a coronary angiogram within 2 months were included. Only patients with a history of CABG surgery were excluded. Both MPI studies and coronary angiograms were reinterpreted by blinded readers. One hundred and twenty two very low (risk of CAD < 5%) or low (risk of CAD < 10%) likelihood subjects with normal myocardial perfusion were used to create normal reference limits. Computer derived quantification of the total perfusion deficit (TPD) at stress and rest was obtained with QPS software. The visual and automated MPI quantification were compared to coronary angiography (\u2265 70% luminal stenosis) by receiver operating curve (ROC) analysis.', 'kwd': u'CZT SPECT MPI, High-Efficiency SPECT MPI, Automated Quantification, Coronary Angiography', 'title': u'High-Efficiency SPECT MPI: Comparison of Automated Quantification, Visual Interpretation, and Coronary Angiography'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3548409/', 'p': u'Endocardial surfaces at the end-diastolic and end-systolic frames for post-stress and rest studies were registered automatically to each other by matching ventricular surfaces. Myocardial MTCs were computed and normal limits of change were determined as the mean and standard deviation for each polar sample. Normal limits were utilized to quantify the MTCs for each map and the accumulated sample values were used for abnormality assessments in segmental regions. A hybrid method was devised by combining the Total Perfusion Deficit (TPD) and MTC for each vessel territory. Normal limits were obtained from 100 subjects with low likelihood (LLK) of coronary artery disease (CAD). For validation, 623 subjects with correlating invasive angiography were studied. All subjects had a stress/rest 99mTc-sestamibi exercise or adenosine test, and all had coronary angiography within 3 months of MPS. All MTC and TPD measurements were derived automatically. The diagnostic accuracy for detection of coronary artery disease for MTC+TPD was compared to TPD alone.Segmental normal values for motion change were between \u22121.3 and \u22124.1 mm and between \u221230.1% and \u22129.8% for thickening change. MTC combined with TPD achieved 61% sensitivity for 3-vessel disease (3VD), 63% for 2-vessel disease (2VD), and 90% for 1-vessel disease (1VD) detection vs. 32% for 3VD (P <0.0001), 53% for 2VD (P < 0.001), and 90% for 1VD (P = 1.0) detection with TPD alone method. The specificity for the combined method was 71% for 3VD, 72% for 2VD, and 47% for 1 VD detection vs. 90% for 3VD (P < 0.0001), 80% for 2VD (P <0.001), and 50% for 1VD detection (P=0.0625) for TPD alone method. The accuracy of 3VD detection by MTC+TPD was higher (69%) than the accuracy of TPD + change in ejection fraction (63%), (P< 0.004).', 'kwd': u'Surface registration, Motion, Thickening, 3 vessel disease, Coronary artery disease, SPECT', 'title': u'Direct Quantification of Post-Stress-Rest Left Ventricular Motion and Thickening Changes for Myocardial Perfusion SPECT'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3654146/', 'p': '-', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Abstracts from the 36th Annual Meeting of the Society of General Internal Medicine'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3809194/', 'p': u'\nPatients: From December 2008 until April 2011 we included 64 patients who were referred to our hospital for DSCT (Somatom Definition, Siemens Medical Solutions, Forchheim, Germany) for suspected coronary artery disease (CAD), Exclusion criteria were: unstable angina, allergic to iodinated contrast material, renal insufficiency, severe respiratory function impairment and heart failure.  Sixty four patients successfully underwent the DSCT and SCA examinations (46 men, 18 women, aged 48-82 years, mean age 61 years). There were 845 segments in SCA and 810 segments in DSCT of the coronary artery that could be assessed with the diameters>1.5mm, while, 4.14% (35/845) segments could not be evaluated separately for following reasons: 19 segments of motion artifact, 12 segments of dense calcification and 4 segments of negative lumen manifestation. These cases were excluded from our study. In the 36 segments of mild stenosis which was manifested in SCA, 29 segments were correctly diagnosed, 3 segments were misdiagnosed and 4 segments were overestimated (3 was moderate stenoses and 1 was severe) in DSCT. In the 30 segments of moderate, diagnosis which is manifested in SCA, 26 segments were correctly diagnosed (Fig.1-\u200b-2),2), 3 segments were miss diagnosed, and one segment was overestimated in DSCT. In the 65 segments of severe stenoses which was manifested in SCA, 61 segments were correctly diagnosed, 4 segments were misdiagnosed and 3 segments were overestimated in DSCT (Table-I). According to the results mentioned above, the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of the DSCT evaluation for the severe coronary artery stenoses were 93.85%, 99.61%, 95.31%, 99.48% respectively. Paired \u03c72-test found P value >0.05, showing no statistically significant difference between DSCT and CCA on manifestation of severe coronary artery stenosis.', 'kwd': u'Coronary artery stenoses, Dual-source CT, Computed tomography, Coronary angiography', 'title': u'The diagnostic evaluation of dual-source CT (DSCT) in the diagnosis of coronary artery stenoses'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4253773/', 'p': u'Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the result of the accumulation of athermanous plaques within the walls of coronary arteries, which supply the myocardium with oxygen and nutrients. CAD leads to heart attacks or strokes and is, thus, one of the most important causes of death worldwide. Angiography, an imaging modality for blood vessels, is currently the most accurate method of diagnosing artery stenosis. However, the disadvantages of this method such as complications, costs, and possible side effects have prompted researchers to investigate alternative solutions.The current study aimed to use data analysis, a non-invasive and less costly method, and various data mining algorithms to predict the stenosis of arteries. Among many people who refer to hospitals due to chest pain, a great number of them are normal and as such do not need angiography. The objective of this study was to predict patients who are most probably normal using features with the highest correlations with CAD with a view to obviate angiography costs and complications. Not a substitute for angiography, this method would select high-risk cases that definitely need angiography.', 'kwd': u'Data Mining, Sensitivity and Specificity, Coronary Artery Disease', 'title': u'Diagnosing Coronary Artery Disease via Data Mining Algorithms by Considering Laboratory and Echocardiography Features'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5450918/', 'p': u'Non-invasive imaging plays a critical role in managing patients with cardiovascular disease. Although subjective visual interpretation remains the clinical mainstay, quantitative analysis facilitates objective, evidence-based management, and advances in clinical research. This has driven developments in computing and software tools aimed at achieving fully automated image processing and quantitative analysis. In parallel, machine learning techniques have been used to rapidly integrate large amounts of clinical and quantitative imaging data to provide highly personalized individual patient-based conclusions.This review summarizes recent advances in automated quantitative imaging in cardiology and describes the latest techniques which incorporate machine learning principles. The review focuses on the cardiac imaging techniques which are in wide clinical use. It also discusses key issues and obstacles for these tools to become utilized in mainstream clinical practice.', 'kwd': u'Artificial intelligence, machine learning, cardiac imaging, deep learning, image segmentation', 'title': u'Cardiac imaging: working towards fully-automated machine analysis & interpretation'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5643767/', 'p': u'The continuous uninterrupted feedback system is the essential part of any well-organized system. We propose aLYNX concept that is a possibility to use an artificial intelligence algorithm or a neural network model in decision-making system so as to avoid possible mistakes and to remind the doctors to review tactics once more in selected cases.aLYNX system includes: registry with significant factors, decisions and results; machine learning process based on this registry data; the use of the machine learning results as the adviser. We show a possibility to build a computer adviser with a neural network model for making a choice between coronary aortic bypass surgery (CABG) and percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in order to achieve a higher 5-year survival rate in patients with angina based on the experience of 5107 patients.', 'kwd': u'Coronary artery bypass grafting, Percutaneous coronary intervention, Artificial intelligence, Decision making', 'title': u'Artificial intelligence: Neural network model as the multidisciplinary team member in clinical decision support to avoid medical mistakes'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5653644/', 'p': '-', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Metabolomics for the masses: The future of metabolomics in a personalized world'}]}