{'Coronary Artery Disease AND Image processing': [{'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4123729/', 'p': u'Despite advances in the pharmacologic and interventional treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD), atherosclerosis remains the leading cause of death in Western societies. X-ray coronary angiography has been the modality of choice for diagnosing the presence and extent of CAD. However, this technique is invasive and provides limited information on the composition of atherosclerotic plaque. Coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) have emerged as promising non-invasive techniques for the clinical imaging of CAD. Hereby, CCTA allows for visualization of coronary calcification, lumen narrowing and atherosclerotic plaque composition. In this regard, data from the CONFIRM Registry recently demonstrated that both atherosclerotic plaque burden and lumen narrowing exhibit incremental value for the prediction of future cardiac events. However, due to technical limitations with CCTA, resulting in false positive or negative results in the presence of severe calcification or motion artifacts, this technique cannot entirely replace invasive angiography at the present time. CMR on the other hand, provides accurate assessment of the myocardial function due to its high spatial and temporal resolution and intrinsic blood-to-tissue contrast. Hereby, regional wall motion and perfusion abnormalities, during dobutamine or vasodilator stress, precede the development of ST-segment depression and anginal symptoms enabling the detection of functionally significant CAD. While CT generally offers better spatial resolution, the versatility of CMR can provide information on myocardial function, perfusion, and viability, all without ionizing radiation for the patients. Technical developments with these 2 non-invasive imaging tools and their current implementation in the clinical imaging of CAD will be presented and discussed herein.The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.', 'kwd': u'coronary artery disease, atherosclerotic plaque, coronary computed tomography, cardiac magnetic resonance, risk stratification', 'title': u'Cardiac magnetic resonance and computed tomography angiography for clinical imaging of stable coronary artery disease. Diagnostic classification and risk stratification'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4922813/', 'p': u'After a decade of clinical use of coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) to evaluate the anatomic severity of coronary artery disease, new methods of deriving functional information from CCTA have been developed. These methods utilize the anatomic information provided by CCTA in conjunction with computational fluid dynamics to calculate fractional flow reserve (FFR) values from CCTA image data sets. Computed tomography-derived FFR (CT-FFR) enables the identification of lesion-specific drop noninvasively. A three-dimensional CT-FFR modeling technique, which provides FFR values throughout the coronary tree (HeartFlow FFRCT analysis), has been validated against measured FFR and is now approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for clinical use. This technique requires off-site supercomputer analysis. More recently, a one-dimensional computational analysis technique (Siemens cFFR), which can be performed on on-site workstations, has been developed and is currently under investigation. This article reviews CT-FFR technology and clinical evidence for its use in stable patients with suspected coronary artery disease.Intermediate degrees of stenosis (30%\u201370%) present the greatest challenge in the diagnosis of CAD. Since hemodynamically significant lesions are occasionally observed in intermediate lesions with <70% stenosis,13 the use of invasive FFR is recommended to evaluate the function of intermediate coronary lesions as a class IIa indication.6 However, given the relatively lower prevalence of lesion-specific pressure drop caused by intermediate stenosis compared to that of severe stenosis in the FAME study,13 CT-derived FFR would be of great use for assessing the functional significance of intermediate lesions to avoid unnecessary ICA and help in treatment decision making. Table 2 provides a summary of the studies of FFRCT and cFFR. Similar to the overall diagnostic accuracy of CT-derived FFR, all studies demonstrated high diagnostic performance for intermediate stenosis, with the highest accuracy and specificity for FFRCT.24,31,38,39', 'kwd': u'fractional flow reserve, coronary computed tomographic angiography, FFRCT, cFFR', 'title': u'Noninvasive FFR derived from coronary CT angiography in the management of coronary artery disease: technology and clinical update'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5329750/', 'p': u'Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. Cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) is established in clinical practice guidelines with a growing evidence base supporting its use to aid the diagnosis and management of patients with suspected or established CAD. CMR is a multi-parametric imaging modality that yields high spatial resolution images that can be acquired in any plane for the assessment of global and regional cardiac function, myocardial perfusion and viability, tissue characterisation and coronary artery anatomy, all within a single study protocol and without exposure to ionising radiation. Advances in technology and acquisition techniques continue to progress the utility of CMR across a wide spectrum of cardiovascular disease, and the publication of large scale clinical trials continues to strengthen the role of CMR in daily cardiology practice. This article aims to review current practice and explore the future directions of multi-parametric CMR imaging in the investigation of stable CAD.Although 1.5T is remains the standard field strength used in clinical CMR, imaging at a higher field strength of 3.0T offers increased signal to noise and contrast to noise ratios thereby giving improved spatial and temporal enhancement[27]. Consequently the diagnostic accuracy of perfusion imaging at 3.0T may be improved, and in a small direct comparison of CMR perfusion at 1.5T, 3.0T (n = 61) showed greater diagnostic accuracy in both single vessel (AUC: 0.89 vs 0.70; P < 0.05) and multi-vessel disease (AUC: 0.95 vs 0.82, P < 0.05)[28]. Furthermore, 3.0T has been compared to 1.5T using FFR as reference standard, corroborating it\u2019s superior diagnostic accuracy[29,30]. The higher 3.0T field strength does however pose challenges with greater field inhomogeneity, susceptibility artefacts and higher local energy deposition. Also, many implants deemed \u201cMR compatible\u201d at 1.5T cannot be scanned at 3.0T[31]. These issues are however being overcome with improved technology and the use of multi-transmit radiofrequency CMR techniques improving field homogeneity[32].', 'kwd': u'Cardiovascular magnetic resonance, Coronary heart disease, Myocardial perfusion, Viability, Prognosis', 'title': u'Assessment of stable coronary artery disease by cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging: Current and emerging techniques'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4788549/', 'p': u'Total atherosclerotic plaque burden assessment by CT angiography (CTA) is a promising tool for diagnosis and prognosis of coronary artery disease (CAD) but its validation is restricted to small clinical studies. We tested the feasibility of semi-automatically derived coronary atheroma burden assessment for identifying patients with hemodynamically significant CAD in a large cohort of patients with heterogenous characteristics.This study focused on the CTA component of the CORE320 study population. A semi-automated contour detection algorithm quantified total coronary atheroma volume defined as the difference between vessel and lumen volume. Percent atheroma volume (PAV = [total atheroma volume/total vessel volume]\xd7100) was the primary metric for assessment (n=374). The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) determined the diagnostic accuracy for identifying patients with hemodynamically significant CAD defined as \u226550% stenosis by quantitative coronary angiography and associated myocardial perfusion abnormality by SPECT.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Total Coronary Atherosclerotic Plaque Burden Assessment by CT Angiography for Detecting Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease Associated with Myocardial Perfusion Abnormalities'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2947500/', 'p': u'Conceived and designed the experiments: WJM JW JMAvE RMB TL. Performed the experiments: SCG. Analyzed the data: SCG MEK AGK SS TL. Contributed reagents/materials/analysis tools: RJvdG. Wrote the paper: SCG MEK AGK SS MK RJvdG WJM JW JMAvE RMB TL. Data interpretation and supervision: MEK JvE TL. Statistical analysis: AK. Assistance with data acquisition in early phase of study: MK. Developed MR method: RB. Handled funding: TL.Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is sensitive to early atherosclerotic changes such as positive remodeling in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). We assessed prevalence, quality, and extent of coronary atherosclerosis in a group of healthy subjects compared to patients with confirmed CAD.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Visualization of Coronary Wall Atherosclerosis in Asymptomatic Subjects and Patients with Coronary Artery Disease Using Magnetic Resonance Imaging'}], 'Coronary Artery Disease AND image segmentation': [{'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4430913/', 'p': u'Computerized tomographic angiography (3D data representing the coronary arteries) and X-ray angiography (2D X-ray image sequences providing information about coronary arteries and their stenosis) are standard and popular assessment tools utilized for medical diagnosis of coronary artery diseases. At present, the results of both modalities are individually analyzed by specialists and it is difficult for them to mentally connect the details of these two techniques. The aim of this work is to assist medical diagnosis by providing specialists with the relationship between computerized tomographic angiography and X-ray angiography.In this study, coronary arteries from two modalities are registered in order to create a 3D reconstruction of the stenosis position. The proposed method starts with coronary artery segmentation and labeling for both modalities. Then, stenosis and relevant labeled artery in X-ray angiography image are marked by a specialist. Proper control points for the marked artery in both modalities are automatically detected and normalized. Then, a geometrical transformation function is computed using these control points. Finally, this function is utilized to register the marked artery from the X-ray angiography image on the computerized tomographic angiography and get the 3D position of the stenosis lesion.', 'kwd': u'Angiography, Computerized tomography angiography, Segmentation, Labeling, Multimodal registration, 3D reconstruction', 'title': u'3D multimodal cardiac data reconstruction using angiography and computerized tomographic angiography registration'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4111838/', 'p': u'The authors are developing a computer-aided detection system to assist radiologists in analysis of coronary artery disease in coronary CT angiograms (cCTA). This study evaluated the accuracy of the authors\u2019 coronary artery segmentation and tracking method which are the essential steps to define the search space for the detection of atherosclerotic plaques.The heart region in cCTA is segmented and the vascular structures are enhanced using the authors\u2019 multiscale coronary artery response (MSCAR) method that performed 3D multiscale filtering and analysis of the eigenvalues of Hessian matrices. Starting from seed points at the origins of the left and right coronary arteries, a 3D rolling balloon region growing (RBG) method that adapts to the local vessel size segmented and tracked each of the coronary arteries and identifies the branches along the tracked vessels. The branches are queued and subsequently tracked until the queue is exhausted. With Institutional Review Board approval, 62 cCTA were collected retrospectively from the authors\u2019 patient files. Three experienced cardiothoracic radiologists manually tracked and marked center points of the coronary arteries as reference standard following the 17-segment model that includes clinically significant coronary arteries. Two radiologists visually examined the computer-segmented vessels and marked the mistakenly tracked veins and noisy structures as false positives (FPs). For the 62 cases, the radiologists marked a total of 10191 center points on 865 visible coronary artery segments.', 'kwd': u'coronary arteries, vessel segmentation, computer-aided detection, coronary artery diseases, atherosclerotic plaque, multiscale filtering', 'title': u'Computerized analysis of coronary artery disease: Performance evaluation of segmentation and tracking of coronary arteries in CT angiograms'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4848047/', 'p': u'Minimally invasive transcatheter technologies have demonstrated substantial promise for the diagnosis and the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. For example, transcatheter aortic valve implantation is an alternative to aortic valve replacement for the treatment of severe aortic stenosis, and transcatheter atrial fibrillation ablation is widely used for the treatment and the cure of atrial fibrillation. In addition, catheter-based intravascular ultrasound and optical coherence tomography imaging of coronary arteries provides important information about the coronary lumen, wall, and plaque characteristics. Qualitative and quantitative analysis of these cross-sectional image data will be beneficial to the evaluation and the treatment of coronary artery diseases such as atherosclerosis. In all the phases (preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative) during the transcatheter intervention procedure, computer vision techniques (e.g., image segmentation and motion tracking) have been largely applied in the field to accomplish tasks like annulus measurement, valve selection, catheter placement control, and vessel centerline extraction. This provides beneficial guidance for the clinicians in surgical planning, disease diagnosis, and treatment assessment. In this paper, we present a systematical review on these state-of-the-art methods. We aim to give a comprehensive overview for researchers in the area of computer vision on the subject of transcatheter intervention. Research in medical computing is multi-disciplinary due to its nature, and hence, it is important to understand the application domain, clinical background, and imaging modality, so that methods and quantitative measurements derived from analyzing the imaging data are appropriate and meaningful. We thus provide an overview on the background information of the transcatheter intervention procedures, as well as a review of the computer vision techniques and methodologies applied in this area.To date, there are four types of commercial transcatheter aortic valve prostheses (TAVP) available in the European market: the Sapien\xae valve by Edwards Lifesciences (Irvine, California, USA) [32], the CoreValve\xae revalving system by Medtronic (Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA) [33], the Jenavalve\xae by Jenavalve Technology (Munich, Germany) [34], and the Acurate TA\xae by Symetis (Ecublens, Switzerland) [35]. The Sapien\xae (stainless steel stent) and Sapien XT\xae (Cobalt-chromium stent) models were approved for both transapical and transfemoral approaches, and Sapien\xae is the only balloon-expandable TAVP in clinical use. The CoreValve\xae (Nitinol stent) system is a self-expandable TAVP, which was approved for transfemoral, subclavian and direct aortic approaches. Both Jenavalve\xae and Acurate TA\xae are self-expandable TAVP and they were approved for transapical procedure only. Recently, Symetis demonstrated the Acurate TF\xae at EuroPCR 2013 that can be delivered via transfemoral procedure. Fig. 5 shows examples of these heart valve models and Table 2 gives a summary of them. The impact of these heart valve prostheses is impressive. More than 40,000 TAVPs have been implanted worldwide, among which Germany is the leading country. In 2010, approximately 25% of all aortic valve replacements were performed with TAVP [43]. The total number of patients currently eligible for TAVI procedure is approximately 200,000, representing a $2B market worldwide.\n', 'kwd': u'Image processing, IVUS, medical imaging, OCT, reconstruction, registration, segmentation, transcatheter intervention, TAFA, TAVI, TMVR, TPVR, TTVI', 'title': u'Computer Vision Techniques for Transcatheter Intervention'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5456060/', 'p': u'Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is an established catheter-based imaging modality for the assessment of coronary artery disease and the guidance of stent placement during percutaneous coronary intervention. Manual analysis of large OCT datasets for vessel contours or stent struts detection is time-consuming and unsuitable for real-time applications. In this study, a fully automatic method was developed for detection of both vessel contours and stent struts. The method was applied to in vitro OCT scans of eight stented silicone bifurcation phantoms for validation purposes. The proposed algorithm comprised four main steps, namely pre-processing, lumen border detection, stent strut detection, and three-dimensional point cloud creation. The algorithm was validated against manual segmentation performed by two independent image readers. Linear regression showed good agreement between automatic and manual segmentations in terms of lumen area (r>0.99). No statistically significant differences in the number of detected struts were found between the segmentations. Mean values of similarity indexes were >95% and >85% for the lumen and stent detection, respectively. Stent point clouds of two selected cases, obtained after OCT image processing, were compared to the centerline points of the corresponding stent reconstructions from micro computed tomography, used as ground-truth. Quantitative comparison between the corresponding stent points resulted in median values of ~150 \u03bcm and ~40 \u03bcm for the total and radial distances of both cases, respectively. The repeatability of the detection method was investigated by calculating the lumen volume and the mean number of detected struts per frame for seven repeated OCT scans of one selected case. Results showed low deviation of values from the median for both analyzed quantities. In conclusion, this study presents a robust automatic method for detection of lumen contours and stent struts from OCT as supported by focused validation against both manual segmentation and micro computed tomography and by good repeatability.To test the repeatability of the lumen border detection algorithm, the lumen volume of each case was calculated as the sum of the lumen area per frame multiplied by the distance between the slices. The extremes of the stent were used as landmarks to establish the same region of interest between acquisitions. Regarding the strut detection algorithm, the mean of the number of detected struts per frame was computed for each case.', 'kwd': '-', 'title': u'Reconstruction of stented coronary arteries from optical coherence tomography images: Feasibility, validation, and repeatability of a segmentation method'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4922813/', 'p': u'After a decade of clinical use of coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) to evaluate the anatomic severity of coronary artery disease, new methods of deriving functional information from CCTA have been developed. These methods utilize the anatomic information provided by CCTA in conjunction with computational fluid dynamics to calculate fractional flow reserve (FFR) values from CCTA image data sets. Computed tomography-derived FFR (CT-FFR) enables the identification of lesion-specific drop noninvasively. A three-dimensional CT-FFR modeling technique, which provides FFR values throughout the coronary tree (HeartFlow FFRCT analysis), has been validated against measured FFR and is now approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for clinical use. This technique requires off-site supercomputer analysis. More recently, a one-dimensional computational analysis technique (Siemens cFFR), which can be performed on on-site workstations, has been developed and is currently under investigation. This article reviews CT-FFR technology and clinical evidence for its use in stable patients with suspected coronary artery disease.Intermediate degrees of stenosis (30%\u201370%) present the greatest challenge in the diagnosis of CAD. Since hemodynamically significant lesions are occasionally observed in intermediate lesions with <70% stenosis,13 the use of invasive FFR is recommended to evaluate the function of intermediate coronary lesions as a class IIa indication.6 However, given the relatively lower prevalence of lesion-specific pressure drop caused by intermediate stenosis compared to that of severe stenosis in the FAME study,13 CT-derived FFR would be of great use for assessing the functional significance of intermediate lesions to avoid unnecessary ICA and help in treatment decision making. Table 2 provides a summary of the studies of FFRCT and cFFR. Similar to the overall diagnostic accuracy of CT-derived FFR, all studies demonstrated high diagnostic performance for intermediate stenosis, with the highest accuracy and specificity for FFRCT.24,31,38,39', 'kwd': u'fractional flow reserve, coronary computed tomographic angiography, FFRCT, cFFR', 'title': u'Noninvasive FFR derived from coronary CT angiography in the management of coronary artery disease: technology and clinical update'}]}