{'Coronary Artery Disease AND Image processing': [{'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4123729/', 'p': u'Despite advances in the pharmacologic and interventional treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD), atherosclerosis remains the leading cause of death in Western societies. X-ray coronary angiography has been the modality of choice for diagnosing the presence and extent of CAD. However, this technique is invasive and provides limited information on the composition of atherosclerotic plaque. Coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) and cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) have emerged as promising non-invasive techniques for the clinical imaging of CAD. Hereby, CCTA allows for visualization of coronary calcification, lumen narrowing and atherosclerotic plaque composition. In this regard, data from the CONFIRM Registry recently demonstrated that both atherosclerotic plaque burden and lumen narrowing exhibit incremental value for the prediction of future cardiac events. However, due to technical limitations with CCTA, resulting in false positive or negative results in the presence of severe calcification or motion artifacts, this technique cannot entirely replace invasive angiography at the present time. CMR on the other hand, provides accurate assessment of the myocardial function due to its high spatial and temporal resolution and intrinsic blood-to-tissue contrast. Hereby, regional wall motion and perfusion abnormalities, during dobutamine or vasodilator stress, precede the development of ST-segment depression and anginal symptoms enabling the detection of functionally significant CAD. While CT generally offers better spatial resolution, the versatility of CMR can provide information on myocardial function, perfusion, and viability, all without ionizing radiation for the patients. Technical developments with these 2 non-invasive imaging tools and their current implementation in the clinical imaging of CAD will be presented and discussed herein.The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.', 'kwd': u'coronary artery disease, atherosclerotic plaque, coronary computed tomography, cardiac magnetic resonance, risk stratification', 'title': u'Cardiac magnetic resonance and computed tomography angiography for clinical imaging of stable coronary artery disease. Diagnostic classification and risk stratification'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4922813/', 'p': u'After a decade of clinical use of coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) to evaluate the anatomic severity of coronary artery disease, new methods of deriving functional information from CCTA have been developed. These methods utilize the anatomic information provided by CCTA in conjunction with computational fluid dynamics to calculate fractional flow reserve (FFR) values from CCTA image data sets. Computed tomography-derived FFR (CT-FFR) enables the identification of lesion-specific drop noninvasively. A three-dimensional CT-FFR modeling technique, which provides FFR values throughout the coronary tree (HeartFlow FFRCT analysis), has been validated against measured FFR and is now approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for clinical use. This technique requires off-site supercomputer analysis. More recently, a one-dimensional computational analysis technique (Siemens cFFR), which can be performed on on-site workstations, has been developed and is currently under investigation. This article reviews CT-FFR technology and clinical evidence for its use in stable patients with suspected coronary artery disease.Intermediate degrees of stenosis (30%\u201370%) present the greatest challenge in the diagnosis of CAD. Since hemodynamically significant lesions are occasionally observed in intermediate lesions with <70% stenosis,13 the use of invasive FFR is recommended to evaluate the function of intermediate coronary lesions as a class IIa indication.6 However, given the relatively lower prevalence of lesion-specific pressure drop caused by intermediate stenosis compared to that of severe stenosis in the FAME study,13 CT-derived FFR would be of great use for assessing the functional significance of intermediate lesions to avoid unnecessary ICA and help in treatment decision making. Table 2 provides a summary of the studies of FFRCT and cFFR. Similar to the overall diagnostic accuracy of CT-derived FFR, all studies demonstrated high diagnostic performance for intermediate stenosis, with the highest accuracy and specificity for FFRCT.24,31,38,39', 'kwd': u'fractional flow reserve, coronary computed tomographic angiography, FFRCT, cFFR', 'title': u'Noninvasive FFR derived from coronary CT angiography in the management of coronary artery disease: technology and clinical update'}], 'Coronary Artery Disease AND image segmentation': [{'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4430913/', 'p': u'Computerized tomographic angiography (3D data representing the coronary arteries) and X-ray angiography (2D X-ray image sequences providing information about coronary arteries and their stenosis) are standard and popular assessment tools utilized for medical diagnosis of coronary artery diseases. At present, the results of both modalities are individually analyzed by specialists and it is difficult for them to mentally connect the details of these two techniques. The aim of this work is to assist medical diagnosis by providing specialists with the relationship between computerized tomographic angiography and X-ray angiography.In this study, coronary arteries from two modalities are registered in order to create a 3D reconstruction of the stenosis position. The proposed method starts with coronary artery segmentation and labeling for both modalities. Then, stenosis and relevant labeled artery in X-ray angiography image are marked by a specialist. Proper control points for the marked artery in both modalities are automatically detected and normalized. Then, a geometrical transformation function is computed using these control points. Finally, this function is utilized to register the marked artery from the X-ray angiography image on the computerized tomographic angiography and get the 3D position of the stenosis lesion.', 'kwd': u'Angiography, Computerized tomography angiography, Segmentation, Labeling, Multimodal registration, 3D reconstruction', 'title': u'3D multimodal cardiac data reconstruction using angiography and computerized tomographic angiography registration'}, {'url': u'https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4111838/', 'p': u'The authors are developing a computer-aided detection system to assist radiologists in analysis of coronary artery disease in coronary CT angiograms (cCTA). This study evaluated the accuracy of the authors\u2019 coronary artery segmentation and tracking method which are the essential steps to define the search space for the detection of atherosclerotic plaques.The heart region in cCTA is segmented and the vascular structures are enhanced using the authors\u2019 multiscale coronary artery response (MSCAR) method that performed 3D multiscale filtering and analysis of the eigenvalues of Hessian matrices. Starting from seed points at the origins of the left and right coronary arteries, a 3D rolling balloon region growing (RBG) method that adapts to the local vessel size segmented and tracked each of the coronary arteries and identifies the branches along the tracked vessels. The branches are queued and subsequently tracked until the queue is exhausted. With Institutional Review Board approval, 62 cCTA were collected retrospectively from the authors\u2019 patient files. Three experienced cardiothoracic radiologists manually tracked and marked center points of the coronary arteries as reference standard following the 17-segment model that includes clinically significant coronary arteries. Two radiologists visually examined the computer-segmented vessels and marked the mistakenly tracked veins and noisy structures as false positives (FPs). For the 62 cases, the radiologists marked a total of 10191 center points on 865 visible coronary artery segments.', 'kwd': u'coronary arteries, vessel segmentation, computer-aided detection, coronary artery diseases, atherosclerotic plaque, multiscale filtering', 'title': u'Computerized analysis of coronary artery disease: Performance evaluation of segmentation and tracking of coronary arteries in CT angiograms'}]}